
1. J Neuroinflammation. 2017 Mar 31;14(1):72. doi: 10.1186/s12974-017-0848-z.

Cerebrospinal fluid cell-free mitochondrial DNA is associated with HIV
replication, iron transport, and mild HIV-associated neurocognitive impairment.

Mehta SR(1,)(2), Pérez-Santiago J(3), Hulgan T(4), Day TR(5), Barnholtz-Sloan
J(6), Gittleman H(6), Letendre S(7), Ellis R(8), Heaton R(3), Patton S(9), Suben 
JD(7), Franklin D(3), Rosario D(3), Clifford DB(10), Collier AC(11), Marra
CM(12), Gelman BB(13), McArthur J(14), McCutchan A(7), Morgello S(15), Simpson
D(15), Connor J(9), Grant I(3), Kallianpur A(16,)(17).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California-San Diego, San Diego, CA,
USA. srmehta@ucsd.edu. (2)Department of Medicine, San Diego Veterans Affairs
Medical Center, San Diego, CA, USA. srmehta@ucsd.edu. (3)Department of
Psychiatry, University of California, San Diego, CA, USA. (4)Department of
Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, 
USA. (5)Division of Biostatistics, Washington University, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(6)Case Comprehensive Cancer Center, Case Western Reserve University School of
Medicine, Cleveland, OH, USA. (7)Department of Medicine, University of
California-San Diego, San Diego, CA, USA. (8)Department of Neurology, University 
of California-San Diego, San Diego, CA, USA. (9)Department of Neurosurgery,
Pennsylvania State/Hershey College of Medicine, Hershey, PA, USA. (10)Department 
of Neurology, Washington University, St. Louis, MO, USA. (11)Department of
Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA. (12)Department of
Neurology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA. (13)Department of
Pathology, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX, USA. (14)Department
of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA. (15)Department of
Neurology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(16)Genomic Medicine Institute/Lerner Research Institute Cleveland Clinic,
Cleveland, OH, USA. (17)Department of Molecular Medicine, Cleveland Clinic Lerner
College of Medicine of Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, USA.

BACKGROUND: Mitochondria are abundant organelles critical for energy metabolism
and brain function. Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), released during cellular injury
and as part of the innate immune response to viral pathogens, contains CpG motifs
that act as TLR-9 ligands. We investigated relationships between cerebrospinal
fluid (CSF) cell-free mtDNA levels and HIV viral load (VL), biomarkers of
inflammation and iron transport, and neurocognitive (NC) function in the CNS HIV 
Antiretroviral Therapy Effects Research (CHARTER) cohort.
METHODS: We quantified cell-free mtDNA in CSF by droplet digital PCR in 332
CHARTER participants who underwent comprehensive neuropsychiatric evaluation. NC 
performance was assessed using the global deficit score (GDS) as either a
continuous or a binary measure (GDS ≥ 0.5, impaired vs. GDS < 0.5, unimpaired).
CSF, clinical, and biomarker data from the earliest available time point were
analyzed. Cell-free mtDNA associations with CSF inflammation and iron-related
biomarkers [CXCL10, IL-6, IL-8, TNF-a, transferrin (TF), ceruloplasmin (CP), and 
vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)], VL, and GDS were evaluated by
multivariable regression.
RESULTS: CSF cell-free mtDNA levels were significantly lower in participants with
undetectable (vs. detectable) VL in either plasma (p < 0.001) or CSF (p < 0.001) 
and in those on antiretroviral therapy (ART; p < 0.001). Participants on ART with
undetectable VL in both CSF and plasma had lower mtDNA levels than those with
detectable VL in both compartments (p = 0.001). Higher mtDNA levels were observed
in participants in the highest vs. lowest tertile (T3 vs. T1) of CSF CXCL10 (T3
vs. T1, p < 0.001) and TNF-a (T3 vs. T1, p < 0.05) in unadjusted analyses. MtDNA 
levels also correlated with CSF leukocyte count. After adjusting for CSF
leukocyte count and VL, mtDNA levels were also associated with other
inflammation- and iron-related biomarkers in CSF, including TF (T3 vs. T1,
p < 0.05) and CP (T3 vs. T1, p < 0.05). With additional correction for ART use,
mtDNA was also negatively associated with CSF VEGF (p < 0.05) and IL-6
(p = 0.05). We observed no associations of CSF mtDNA levels with age or
GDS-defined NC impairment.
CONCLUSIONS: CSF cell-free mtDNA levels were associated with HIV RNA and ART
status, as well as with biomarkers of iron transport and VEGF, a growth factor
with known effects on mitochondrial integrity and autophagy. CSF mtDNA may be a
biomarker of iron dysregulation and/or neuroinflammation during HIV infection.

DOI: 10.1186/s12974-017-0848-z 
PMID: 28359324 


2. Anal Chem. 2017 Mar 28. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.6b04208. [Epub ahead of print]

Model based classification for digital PCR: your Umbrella for rain.

Jacobs BK, Goetghebeur E, Vandesompele J, De Ganck A, Nijs N, Beckers A, Papazova
N, Roosens NH, Clement L.

Standard data analysis pipelines for digital PCR estimate the concentration of a 
target nucleic acid by digitizing the end-point fluorescence of the parallel
micro-PCR reactions using an automated hard threshold. While it is known that
misclassification has a major impact on the concentration estimate and
substantially reduces accuracy, the uncertainty of this classification is
typically ignored. We introduce a model-based clustering method to estimate the
probability that the target is present (absent) in a partition conditional on its
observed fluorescence and the distributional shape in no template control
samples. This methodology acknowledges the inherent uncertainty of the
classification and provides a natural measure of precision, both at individual
partition level and at the level of the global concentration. We illustrate our
method on genetically modified organism, inhibition, dynamic range and mutation
detection experiments. We show that our method provides concentration estimates
of similar accuracy or better than the current standard along with a more
realistic measure of precision. The individual partition probabilities and
diagnostic density plots further allow for some quality control. An R
implementation of our method is available, providing a more objective and
automated data analysis procedure for absolute dPCR quantification.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.6b04208 
PMID: 28350455 


3. J Virol Methods. 2017 Mar 24. pii: S0166-0934(16)30581-X. doi:
10.1016/j.jviromet.2017.03.010. [Epub ahead of print]

Analytical validation of a reverse transcriptase droplet digital PCR (RT-ddPCR)
for quantitative detection of infectious hematopoietic necrosis virus.

Jia P(1), Purcell MK(2), Pan G(3), Wang J(3), Kan S(4), Liu Y(3), Zheng X(3), Shi
X(3), He J(3), Yu L(3), Hua Q(3), Lu T(3), Lan W(3), Winton JR(2), Jin N(5), Liu 
H(6).

Author information: 
(1)Shenzhen Entry-exit Inspection and Quarantine Bureau, Shenzhen, 518045,
People's Republic of China; Shenzhen Academy of Inspection and Quarantine
Sciences, Shenzhen, 518045, People's Republic of Chin; Institute of Military
Veterinary Medicine, Academy of Military Medical Sciences of PLA, Jilin, 130117, 
People's Republic of China. (2)US Geological Survey, Western Fisheries Research
Center, 6505 Northeast 65th Street, Seattle, WA 98115, USA. (3)Shenzhen
Entry-exit Inspection and Quarantine Bureau, Shenzhen, 518045, People's Republic 
of China; Shenzhen Academy of Inspection and Quarantine Sciences, Shenzhen,
518045, People's Republic of Chin. (4)Shenzhen Supervision and Testing Center for
Quality and Safety of Agri-products, Shenzhen, 518005, People's Republic of
China. (5)Institute of Military Veterinary Medicine, Academy of Military Medical 
Sciences of PLA, Jilin, 130117, People's Republic of China. (6)Shenzhen
Entry-exit Inspection and Quarantine Bureau, Shenzhen, 518045, People's Republic 
of China; Shenzhen Academy of Inspection and Quarantine Sciences, Shenzhen,
518045, People's Republic of Chin. Electronic address: liuhong@szciq.gov.cn.

Infectious hematopoietic necrosis virus (IHNV) is an important pathogen of
salmonid fishes. A validated universal reverse transcriptase quantitative PCR
(RT-qPCR) assay that can quantify levels of IHNV in fish tissues has been
previously reported. In the present study, we adapted the published set of IHNV
primers and probe for use in a reverse-transcriptase droplet digital PCR
(RT-ddPCR) assay for quantification of the virus in fish tissue samples. The
RT-ddPCR and RT-qPCR assays detected 13 phylogenetically diverse IHNV strains,
but neither assay produced detectable amplification when RNA from other fish
viruses was used. The RT-ddPCR assay had a limit of detection (LOD) equating to
2.2 plaque forming units (PFU)/μl while the LOD for the RT-qPCR was 0.2 PFU/μl.
Good agreement (69.4-100%) between assays was observed when used to detect IHNV
RNA in cell culture supernatant and tissues from IHNV infected rainbow trout
(Oncorhynchus mykiss) and arctic char (Salvelinus alpinus). Estimates of RNA copy
number produced by the two assays were significantly correlated but the RT-qPCR
consistently produced higher estimates than the RT-ddPCR. The analytical
properties of the N gene RT-ddPCR test indicated that this method may be useful
to assess IHNV RNA copy number for research and diagnostic purposes. Future work 
is needed to establish the within and between laboratory diagnostic performance
of the RT-ddPCR assay.

Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2017.03.010 
PMID: 28347708 


4. BMC Med Genet. 2017 Mar 27;18(1):37. doi: 10.1186/s12881-017-0399-2.

Whole-exome sequencing and digital PCR identified a novel compound heterozygous
mutation in the NPHP1 gene in a case of Joubert syndrome and related disorders.

Koyama S(1), Sato H(2), Wada M(2), Kawanami T(2), Emi M(3), Kato T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Hematology, Metabolism, Endocrinology, and
Diabetology, Yamagata University Faculty of Medicine, 2-2-2 Iida-nishi, Yamagata,
990-9585, Japan. skoyama@med.id.yamagata-u.ac.jp. (2)Department of Neurology,
Hematology, Metabolism, Endocrinology, and Diabetology, Yamagata University
Faculty of Medicine, 2-2-2 Iida-nishi, Yamagata, 990-9585, Japan. (3)Thoracic
Oncology Program, University of Hawaii, Cancer Center, 701 Ilalo Street,
Honolulu, HI, 96813, USA.

BACKGROUND: Joubert syndrome and related disorders (JSRD) is a clinically and
genetically heterogeneous condition with autosomal recessive or X-linked
inheritance, which share a distinctive neuroradiological hallmark, the so-called 
molar tooth sign. JSRD is classified into six clinical subtypes based on
associated variable multiorgan involvement. To date, 21 causative genes have been
identified in JSRD, which makes genetic diagnosis difficult.
CASE PRESENTATION: We report here a case of a 28-year-old Japanese woman
diagnosed with JS with oculorenal defects with a novel compound heterozygous
mutation (p.Ser219*/deletion) in the NPHP1 gene. Whole-exome sequencing (WES) of 
the patient identified the novel nonsense mutation in an apparently homozygous
state. However, it was absent in her mother and heterozygous in her father. A
read depth-based copy number variation (CNV) detection algorithm using WES data
of the family predicted a large heterozygous deletion mutation in the patient and
her mother, which was validated by digital polymerase chain reaction, indicating 
that the patient was compound heterozygous for the paternal nonsense mutation and
the maternal deletion mutation spanning the site of the single nucleotide change.
CONCLUSION: It should be noted that analytical pipelines that focus purely on
sequence information cannot distinguish homozygosity from hemizygosity because of
its inability to detect large deletions. The ability to detect CNVs in addition
to single nucleotide variants and small insertion/deletions makes WES an
attractive diagnostic tool for genetically heterogeneous disorders.

DOI: 10.1186/s12881-017-0399-2 
PMID: 28347285 


5. Anal Chem. 2017 Mar 28. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.7b00240. [Epub ahead of print]

Evaluating Droplet Digital PCR for the Quantification of Human Genomic DNA:
Lifting the Traceability Fog.

Kline MC, Duewer DL.

Digital polymerase chain reaction (dPCR) endpoint platforms directly estimate the
number of DNA target copies per reaction partition, λ, where the partitions are
fixed-location chambers (cdPCR) or aqueous droplets floating in oil (ddPCR). For 
use in the certification of target concentration in primary calibrant certified
reference materials (CRMs), both λ and the partition volume, V, must be
metrologically traceable to some accessible reference system: ideally, the
International System of Units (SI). The fixed spatial distribution of cdPCR
chambers enables real-time monitoring of PCR amplification. Analysis of the
resulting reaction curves enables validation of the critical dPCR assumptions
that are essential for establishing the SI-traceability of λ. We know of no
direct method for validating these assumptions for ddPCR platforms. The
manufacturers of the cdPCR and ddPCR systems available to us do not provide
traceable partition volume specifications. Our colleagues at the National
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) have developed a reliable method for
determining ddPCR droplet volume and have demonstrated that different ddPCR
reagents yield droplets of somewhat different size. Thus neither dPCR platform by
itself provides metrologically traceable estimates of target concentration. We
show here that evaluating split-samples with both cdPCR and ddPCR platforms can
transfer the λ traceability characteristics of a cdPCR assay to its ddPCR
analogue, establishing fully traceable ddPCR estimates of CRM target
concentration.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.7b00240 
PMID: 28347134 


6. Sci Adv. 2017 Mar 22;3(3):e1501645. doi: 10.1126/sciadv.1501645. eCollection
2017.

Self-powered integrated microfluidic point-of-care low-cost enabling (SIMPLE)
chip.

Yeh EC(1), Fu CC(1), Hu L(2), Thakur R(2), Feng J(2), Lee LP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley, CA
94720, USA.; Berkeley Sensor and Actuator Center, University of California,
Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA. (2)Department of Bioengineering, University of
California, Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA. (3)Department of Bioengineering,
University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA.; Berkeley Sensor and
Actuator Center, University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA.;
Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, University of
California, Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA.; Biophysics Graduate Program,
University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA.

Portable, low-cost, and quantitative nucleic acid detection is desirable for
point-of-care diagnostics; however, current polymerase chain reaction testing
often requires time-consuming multiple steps and costly equipment. We report an
integrated microfluidic diagnostic device capable of on-site quantitative nucleic
acid detection directly from the blood without separate sample preparation steps.
First, we prepatterned the amplification initiator [magnesium acetate (MgOAc)] on
the chip to enable digital nucleic acid amplification. Second, a simplified
sample preparation step is demonstrated, where the plasma is separated
autonomously into 224 microwells (100 nl per well) without any hemolysis.
Furthermore, self-powered microfluidic pumping without any external pumps,
controllers, or power sources is accomplished by an integrated vacuum battery on 
the chip. This simple chip allows rapid quantitative digital nucleic acid
detection directly from human blood samples (10 to 10(5) copies of
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus DNA per microliter, ~30 min, via
isothermal recombinase polymerase amplification). These autonomous, portable,
lab-on-chip technologies provide promising foundations for future low-cost
molecular diagnostic assays.

DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.1501645 
PMCID: PMC5362183
PMID: 28345028 


7. Biol Reprod. 2017 Feb 17. doi: 10.1095/biolreprod.116.143446. [Epub ahead of
print]

Three-dimensional testicular organoid: a novel tool for the study of human
spermatogenesis and gonadotoxicity in vitro†.

Pendergraft SS(1), Sadri-Ardekani H(1,)(2), Atala A(1,)(2), Bishop CE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Wake Forest Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Winston-Salem, North
Carolina, USA. (2)Department of Urology, Wake Forest School of Medicine,
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.

Existing methods for evaluating the potential gonadotoxicity of environmental
agents and pharmaceutical compounds rely heavily on animal studies. The current
gold standard in vivo functional assays in animals are limited in their human
predictive capacity. In addition, existing human two-dimensional in vitro models 
of testicular toxicity do not accurately reflect the in vivo situation. A more
reliable testicular in vitro model system is needed to better assess the
gonadotoxic potential of drugs prior to progression into clinical trials. The
overall goal of this study was to develop a three-dimensional (3D) in vitro human
testis organoid culture system for use as both a predictive first tier
drug-screening tool and as a model of human testicular function. Multicellular
human testicular organoids composed of Spermatogonial Stem Cells, Sertoli, Leydig
and peritubular cells were created and evaluated over time for morphology,
viability, androgen production and ability to support germ cell differentiation. 
Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay measurements confirmed that the organoids
produced testosterone continuously with and without hCG stimulation. Upregulation
of postmeiotic genes including PRM1 and Acrosin, detected by quantitative-PCR,
digital PCR and Immunofluorescence, indicated the transition of a small
percentage of diploid to haploid germ cells. As a novel screening tool for
reproductive toxicity, 3D organoids were exposed to four chemotherapeutic drugs, 
and they responded in a dose-dependent manner and maintained IC50 values
significantly higher than 2D cultures. This 3D human testis organoid system has
the potential to be used as a novel testicular toxicity-screening tool and in
vitro model for human spermatogenesis.

© The Authors 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society for
the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For permissions, please
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.116.143446 
PMID: 28339648 


8. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2017 Feb 23:1-4. doi: 10.1080/21645515.2017.1295191. [Epub
ahead of print]

New approaches for characterization of the genetic stability of vaccine cell
lines.

Ng S(1), Gisonni-Lex L(1), Azizi A(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Microbiology & Virology Platform , Department of Analytical Research &
Development North America , Sanofi Pasteur, Toronto , Ontario , Canada.

The genetic stability of cell lines is a critical analytical attribute required
to demonstrate the quality of cells over time. During cell passage, mutations can
arise in the genomic DNA, potentially leading to changes in the final vaccine
product. The identity and integrity of master cell banks, extended cell banks,
complementing cell lines or recombinant cell lines expressing transgenes has to
be tested throughout the production process by the vaccine manufacturer. Over the
past few years, the traditional methods for evaluation of genetic stability have 
been replaced with molecular approaches including quantitative PCR, digital PCR
and high throughput sequencing. However, these molecular-based approaches are
used in research laboratories and not within a GMP-compliant environment. In this
article, we briefly discuss some opportunities and challenges in characterization
of the genetic stability of vaccine cell lines with these molecular-based
approaches.

DOI: 10.1080/21645515.2017.1295191 
PMID: 28333573 


9. Biomol Detect Quantif. 2017 Feb 14;11:4-20. doi: 10.1016/j.bdq.2017.01.001.
eCollection 2017.

Molecular techniques for the personalised management of patients with chronic
myeloid leukaemia.

Alikian M(1), Gale RP(2), Apperley JF(2), Foroni L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Haematology, Department of Medicine, Imperial College London
Hammersmith Hospital, London UK; Imperial Molecular Pathology, Imperial College
Healthcare Trust, Hammersmith Hospital, London, UK. (2)Centre for Haematology,
Department of Medicine, Imperial College London Hammersmith Hospital, London UK.

Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is the paradigm for targeted cancer therapy.
RT-qPCR is the gold standard for monitoring response to tyrosine kinase-inhibitor
(TKI) therapy based on the reduction of blood or bone marrow BCR-ABL1. Some
patients with CML and very low or undetectable levels of BCR-ABL1 transcripts can
stop TKI-therapy without CML recurrence. However, about 60 percent of patients
discontinuing TKI-therapy have rapid leukaemia recurrence. This has increased the
need for more sensitive and specific techniques to measure residual CML cells.
The clinical challenge is to determine when it is safe to stop TKI-therapy. In
this review we describe and critically evaluate the current state of CML clinical
management, different technologies used to monitor measurable residual disease
(MRD) focus on comparingRT-qPCR and new methods entering clinical practice. We
discuss advantages and disadvantages of new methods.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bdq.2017.01.001 
PMCID: PMC5348117
PMID: 28331814 


10. Plant Sci. 2017 May;258:156-169. doi: 10.1016/j.plantsci.2017.01.005. Epub 2017
Jan 30.

DGE-seq analysis of MUR3-related Arabidopsis mutants provides insight into how
dysfunctional xyloglucan affects cell elongation.

Xu Z(1), Wang M(2), Shi D(3), Zhou G(4), Niu T(5), Hahn MG(6), O'Neill MA(7),
Kong Y(8).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory for Tobacco Gene Resources, Tobacco Research Institute, Chinese
Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Qingdao 266101, PR China; Graduate School of
Chinese Academy of Agricultural Science, Beijing 100081, PR China. Electronic
address: xuzc1110@163.com. (2)Key Laboratory for Tobacco Gene Resources, Tobacco 
Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Qingdao 266101, PR 
China; Graduate School of Chinese Academy of Agricultural Science, Beijing
100081, PR China. Electronic address: menglihua@yeah.net. (3)Key Laboratory for
Tobacco Gene Resources, Tobacco Research Institute, Chinese Academy of
Agricultural Sciences, Qingdao 266101, PR China. Electronic address:
shidc@qibebt.ac.cn. (4)Qingdao Engineering Research Center of Biomass Resources
and Environment, Qingdao Institute of Bioenergy and Bioprocess Technology,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Qingdao 266101, PR China. Electronic address:
zhougk@qibebt.ac.cn. (5)Key Laboratory for Tobacco Gene Resources, Tobacco
Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Qingdao 266101, PR 
China. Electronic address: tian15288861055@163.com. (6)Complex Carbohydrate
Research Center, University of Georgia, Athens, GA 30602-4712 USA; Department of 
Plant Biology, University of Georgia, Athens, GA 30602-4712 USA. Electronic
address: hahn@ccrc.uga.edu. (7)Complex Carbohydrate Research Center, University
of Georgia, Athens, GA 30602-4712 USA. Electronic address: mao@ccrc.uga.edu.
(8)Key Laboratory for Tobacco Gene Resources, Tobacco Research Institute, Chinese
Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Qingdao 266101, PR China. Electronic address:
kongyingzhen@caas.cn.

Our previous study of the Arabidopsis mur3-3 mutant and mutant plants in which
the mur3-3 phenotypes are suppressed (xxt2mur3-3, xxt5mur3-3, xxt1xxt2mur3-3 and 
35Spro:XLT2:mur3-3) showed that hypocotyl cell elongation is decreased in plants 
that synthesize galactose-deficient xyloglucan. To obtain genome-wide insight
into the transcriptome changes and regulatory networks that may be involved in
this decreased elongation, we performed digital gene expression analyses of the
etiolated hypocotyls of wild type (WT), mur3-3 and the four suppressor lines.
Numerous differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were detected in comparisons
between WT and mur3-3 (1423), xxt2mur3-3 and mur3-3 (675), xxt5mur3-3 and mur3-3 
(1272), xxt1xxt2mur3-3 and mur3-3 (1197) and 35Spro:XLT2:mur3-3 vs mur3-3 (121). 
550 overlapped DEGs were detected among WT vs mur3-3, xxt2mur3-3 vs mur3-3,
xxt5mur3-3 vs mur3-3, and xxt1xxt2mur3-3 vs mur3-3 comparisons. These DEGs
include 46 cell wall-related genes, 24 transcription factors, 6 hormone-related
genes, 9 protein kinase genes and 9 aquaporin genes. The expression of all of the
550 overlapped genes is restored to near wild-type levels in the four mur3-3
suppressor lines. qRT-PCR of fifteen of these 550 genes showed that their
expression levels are consistent with the digital gene expression data.
Overexpression of some of these genes (XTH4, XTH30, PME3, EXPA11, MYB88, ROT3,
AT5G37790, WAG2 and TIP2;3) that are down-regulated in mur3-3 partially rescued
the short hypocotyl phenotype but not the aerial phenotype of mur3-3, indicating 
that different mechanisms exist between hypocotyl cell elongation and leaf cell
elongation.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plantsci.2017.01.005 
PMID: 28330559 


11. BMC Cancer. 2017 Mar 22;17(1):210. doi: 10.1186/s12885-017-3185-9.

Tumor burden monitoring using cell-free tumor DNA could be limited by tumor
heterogeneity in advanced breast cancer and should be evaluated together with
radiographic imaging.

García-Saenz JA(1), Ayllón P(1), Laig M(2), Acosta-Eyzaguirre D(3),
García-Esquinas M(4,)(5), Montes M(4), Sanz J(6), Barquín M(7), Moreno F(1),
Garcia-Barberan V(1), Díaz-Rubio E(1), Caldes T(8), Romero A(9,)(10).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Oncology Department, Hospital Clínico San Carlos, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Thermo Fisher Scientific, Waltham, Massachusetts, USA. (3)Medical Oncology
Department, Centro Integral Oncológico Clara Campal HM hospitals, Madrid, Spain. 
(4)Radiology Department, Hospital Clínico San Carlos, Madrid, Spain. (5)Nuclear
Medicine Department, Hospital Clínico San Carlos, Madrid, Spain. (6)Pathology
Department, Hospital Clínico San Carlos, Madrid, Spain. (7)Medical Oncology
Department, Hospital Universitario Puerta de Hierro Madrid, 28222, Majadahonda,
Madrid, Spain. (8)Medical Oncology Department, Hospital Clínico San Carlos,
Madrid, Spain. trinidad.caldes@salud.madrid.org. (9)Medical Oncology Department, 
Hospital Clínico San Carlos, Madrid, Spain. atocha10@hotmail.com. (10)Medical
Oncology Department, Hospital Universitario Puerta de Hierro Madrid, 28222,
Majadahonda, Madrid, Spain. atocha10@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Accurate measurement of tumor burden in breast cancer disease is
essential to improve the clinical management of patients. In this study, we
evaluate whether the fluctuations in the fraction of PIK3CA mutant allele
correlates with tumor response according to RECIST criteria and tumor markers
quantification.
METHODS: Eighty six plasma samples were analyzed by digital PCR using Rare
Mutation Assays for E542K, E545K and H1047R. Mutant cfDNA and tumor markers
CA15-3 and CEA were compared with radiographic imaging.
RESULTS: The agreement between PIK3CA mutation status in FFPE samples and
circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) was moderate (K = 0.591; 95% IC = 0.371-0.811).
Restricting the analysis to the metastatic patients, we found a good agreement
between PIK3CA mutation status assessed in liquid and solid biopsy (K = 0.798
95%; IC = 0.586-1). ctDNA showed serial changes with fluctuations correlating
with tumor markers 15.3 and CEA in 7 out of 8 cases with Pearson correlation
coefficients ranging from 0.99 to 0.46 and from 0.99 to 0.38 respectively.
Similarly, fluctuations in the fraction of PIK3CA mutant allele always correlated
with changes in lesion size seen on images, although in two cases it did not
correlate with treatment responses as defined by RECIST criteria.
CONCLUSION: oncogenic mutation quantification in plasma samples can be useful to 
monitor treatment outcome. However, it might be limited by tumor heterogeneity in
advanced disease and it should be evaluated together with radiographic imaging.

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-017-3185-9 
PMID: 28330468 


12. Sci Rep. 2017 Mar 22;7:44854. doi: 10.1038/srep44854.

Calibration-free assays on standard real-time PCR devices.

Debski PR(1,)(2), Gewartowski K(2), Bajer S(2), Garstecki P(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physical Chemistry, Polish Academy of Sciences, Kasprzaka 44/52, 
Warsaw, 01-224, Poland. (2)Curiosity Diagnostics Sp. z o.o., Kasprzaka 44/52,
Warsaw, 01-224, Poland.

Quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction (qPCR) is one of central techniques in
molecular biology and important tool in medical diagnostics. While being a golden
standard qPCR techniques depend on reference measurements and are susceptible to 
large errors caused by even small changes of reaction efficiency or conditions
that are typically not marked by decreased precision. Digital PCR (dPCR)
technologies should alleviate the need for calibration by providing absolute
quantitation using binary (yes/no) signals from partitions provided that the
basic assumption of amplification a single target molecule into a positive signal
is met. Still, the access to digital techniques is limited because they require
new instruments. We show an analog-digital method that can be executed on
standard (real-time) qPCR devices. It benefits from real-time readout, providing 
calibration-free assessment. The method combines advantages of qPCR and dPCR and 
bypasses their drawbacks. The protocols provide for small simplified partitioning
that can be fitted within standard well plate format. We demonstrate that with
the use of synergistic assay design standard qPCR devices are capable of absolute
quantitation when normal qPCR protocols fail to provide accurate estimates. We
list practical recipes how to design assays for required parameters, and how to
analyze signals to estimate concentration.

DOI: 10.1038/srep44854 
PMCID: PMC5361099
PMID: 28327545 


13. Anal Biochem. 2017 Mar 18;526:50-57. doi: 10.1016/j.ab.2017.03.016. [Epub ahead
of print]

Simple quantitative PCR analysis for allelic Pten loss in tumor progression.

Wu X(1), Zhu A(2), Pang X(3), Xie G(4), Gu X(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Nanjing Medical University, 140 Hanzhong Road,
Nanjing, 210029, China; Department of Pneumology, The First People's Hospital of 
Lianyungang City, Lianyungang, 222002, China. (2)Department of Physiology,
Nanjing Medical University, 140 Hanzhong Road, Nanjing, 210029, China; Howard
University, Dixon Building, Room 210, 600 W. Street NW, Washington DC, 20059,
USA. (3)Howard University, Dixon Building, Room 210, 600 W. Street NW, Washington
DC, 20059, USA. (4)Department of Physiology, Nanjing Medical University, 140
Hanzhong Road, Nanjing, 210029, China. Electronic address: Serene_x@163.com.

We describe a simple method to accurately detect and quantify both Pten mutation 
and allele-specific loss using allele-specific PCR analysis. Our approach used a 
heterozygous genomic DNA with one wild-type and one mutant Pten allele as a
reference at a single concentration to calculate the percent ratio of the
wild-type Pten gene for the detection of allele-specific gene loss. With a
standard curve, ratios from PCR data were used to quantitate the wild-type Pten
allele copy number loss in tumor specimens. We demonstrate the utility of our
approach to calculate allele-specific Pten loss during tumor progression and show
that our approach generates quantitative data that are comparable to those
obtained from digital droplet PCR. As a method to detect both mutation and
allele-specific gene loss, our approach is less subject to the variability of
sample amount that are often very limited in clinical analysis. Since
conventional PCR is easy to be carried out, our method simplifies the workflow in
any laboratory and would provide significant advantages for simplicity to
quantify allele-specific gene loss.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ab.2017.03.016 
PMID: 28322802 


14. Dis Aquat Organ. 2017 Mar 21;123(3):213-226. doi: 10.3354/dao03097.

Prevalence and pathogen load estimates for the fungus Batrachochytrium
dendrobatidis are impacted by ITS DNA copy number variation.

Rebollar EA(1), Woodhams DC, LaBumbard B, Kielgast J, Harris RN.

Author information: 
(1)Biology Department, James Madison University, 951 Carrier Dr., MSC 7801,
Harrisonburg, Virginia 22807, USA.

The ribosomal gene complex is a multi-copy region that is widely used for
phylogenetic analyses of organisms from all 3 domains of life. In fungi, the copy
number of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) is used to detect abundance of
pathogens causing diseases such as chytridiomycosis in amphibians and white nose 
syndrome in bats. Chytridiomycosis is caused by the fungi Batrachochytrium
dendrobatidis (Bd) and B. salamandrivorans (Bsal), and is responsible for
declines and extinctions of amphibians worldwide. Over a decade ago, a qPCR assay
was developed to determine Bd prevalence and pathogen load. Here, we demonstrate 
the effect that ITS copy number variation in Bd strains can have on the
estimation of prevalence and pathogen load. We used data sets from different
amphibian species to simulate how ITS copy number affects prevalence and pathogen
load. In addition, we tested 2 methods (gBlocks® synthetic standards and digital 
PCR) to determine ITS copy number in Bd strains. Our results show that
assumptions about the ITS copy number can lead to under- or overestimation of Bd 
prevalence and pathogen load. The use of synthetic standards replicated
previously published estimates of ITS copy number, whereas dPCR resulted in
estimates that were consistently lower than previously published estimates.
Standardizing methods will assist with comparison across studies and produce
reliable estimates of prevalence and pathogen load in the wild, while using the
same Bd strain for exposure experiments and zoospore standards in qPCR remains
the best method for estimating parameters used in epidemiological studies.

DOI: 10.3354/dao03097 
PMID: 28322208 


15. PLoS One. 2017 Mar 20;12(3):e0173567. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0173567.
eCollection 2017.

A digital PCR method for identifying and quantifying adulteration of meat species
in raw and processed food.

Ren J(1,)(2), Deng T(1,)(2), Huang W(2), Chen Y(2), Ge Y(1,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)College of Food Science and Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural
University, Beijing, China. (2)Agro-product Safety Research Center, Chinese
Academy of Inspection and Quarantine, Beijing, China. (3)China Rural Technology
Development Center, Beijing, China.

Meat adulteration is a worldwide concern. In this paper, a new droplet digital
PCR (ddPCR) method was developed for the quantitative determination of the
presence of chicken in sheep and goat meat products. Meanwhile, a constant
(multiplication factor) was introduced to transform the ratio of copy numbers to 
the proportion of meats. The presented ddPCR method was also proved to be more
accurate (showing bias of less than 9% in the range from 5% to 80%) than
real-time PCR, which has been widely used in this determination. The method
exhibited good repeatability and stability in different thermal treatments and at
ultra-high pressure. The relative standard deviation (RSD) values of 5% chicken
content was less than 5.4% for ultra-high pressure or heat treatment. Moreover,
we confirmed that different parts of meat had no effect on quantification
accuracy of the ddPCR method. In contrast to real-time PCR, we examined the
performance of ddPCR as a more precise, sensitive and stable analytical strategy 
to overcome potential problems of discrepancies in amplification efficiency
discrepancy and to obtain the copy numbers directly without standard curves. The 
method and strategy developed in this study can be applied to quantify the
presence and to confirm the absence of adulterants not only to sheep but also to 
other kinds of meat and meat products.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0173567 
PMID: 28319152 


16. Front Microbiol. 2017 Mar 2;8:332. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2017.00332. eCollection
2017.

Multiplexed Single Intact Cell Droplet Digital PCR (MuSIC ddPCR) Method for
Specific Detection of Enterohemorrhagic E. coli (EHEC) in Food Enrichment
Cultures.

McMahon TC(1), Blais BW(2), Wong A(3), Carrillo CD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Research and Development, Ottawa Laboratory (Carling), Ontario Laboratory
Network, Canadian Food Inspection Agency, OttawaON, Canada; Department of
Biology, Carleton University, OttawaON, Canada. (2)Research and Development,
Ottawa Laboratory (Carling), Ontario Laboratory Network, Canadian Food Inspection
Agency, Ottawa ON, Canada. (3)Department of Biology, Carleton University, Ottawa 
ON, Canada.

Foodborne illness attributed to enterohemorrhagic E. coli (EHEC), a highly
pathogenic subset of Shiga toxin-producing E. coli (STEC), is increasingly
recognized as a significant public health issue. Current microbiological methods 
for identification of EHEC in foods often use PCR-based approaches to screen
enrichment broth cultures for characteristic gene markers [i.e., Shiga toxin
(stx) and intimin (eae)]. However, false positives arise when complex food
matrices, such as beef, contain mixtures of eae-negative STEC and eae-positive E.
coli, but no EHEC with both markers in a single cell. To reduce false-positive
detection of EHEC in food enrichment samples, a Multiplexed, Single Intact Cell
droplet digital PCR (MuSIC ddPCR) assay capable of detecting the co-occurrence of
the stx and eae genes in a single bacterial cell was developed. This method
requires: (1) dispersal of intact bacteria into droplets; (2) release of genomic 
DNA (gDNA) by heat lysis; and (3) amplification and detection of genetic targets 
(stx and eae) using standard TaqMan chemistries with ddPCR. Performance of the
method was tested with panels of EHEC and non-target E. coli. By determining the 
linkage (i.e., the proportion of droplets in which stx and eae targets were both 
amplified), samples containing EHEC (typically greater than 20% linkage) could be
distinguished from samples containing mixtures of eae-negative STEC and
eae-positive E. coli (0-2% linkage). The use of intact cells was necessary as
this linkage was not observed with gDNA extracts. EHEC could be accurately
identified in enrichment broth cultures containing excess amounts of background
E. coli and in enrichment cultures derived from ground beef/pork and leafy-green 
produce samples. To our knowledge, this is the first report of dual-target
detection in single bacterial cells using ddPCR. The application of MuSIC ddPCR
to enrichment-culture screening would reduce false-positives, thereby improving
the cost, speed, and accuracy of current methods for EHEC detection in foods.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2017.00332 
PMCID: PMC5332415
PMID: 28303131 


17. Front Microbiol. 2017 Mar 2;8:331. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2017.00331. eCollection
2017.

New Approaches on Quantification of Campylobacter jejuni in Poultry Samples: The 
Use of Digital PCR and Real-time PCR against the ISO Standard Plate Count Method.

Papić B(1), Pate M(1), Henigman U(2), Zajc U(1), Gruntar I(1), Biasizzo M(2),
Ocepek M(1), Kušar D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Veterinary Faculty, Institute of Microbiology and Parasitology, University of 
Ljubljana Ljubljana, Slovenia. (2)Veterinary Faculty, Institute of Food Safety,
Feed and Environment, University of Ljubljana Ljubljana, Slovenia.

Campylobacteriosis is the most frequently reported bacterial food-borne illness
in the European Union and contaminated broiler meat is considered the most
important source of infection in humans. The aim of the present study was to
evaluate real-time PCR (qPCR) and digital PCR (dPCR) for quantification of
Campylobacter jejuni in 75 broiler neck-skin samples collected from a poultry
slaughterhouse, and to compare them with the ISO 10272-2 standard plate count
method. For qPCR standard curve, C. jejuni-negative neck-skin samples were spiked
with C. jejuni suspension with a known number of bacterial cells. The observed
CFU/g values by qPCR correlated greatly with the expected values and qPCR showed 
good performance with the reliable limit of detection (rLOD) and limit of
quantification (LOQ) of three and 31 target copies per reaction, respectively.
However, both rLOD (1219 CFU/g) and LOQ (12,523 CFU/g) were beyond the
EFSA-proposed critical limit of 500-1,000 CFU/g of neck skin. Although C. jejuni 
cell counts were ≤1,000 CFU/g in only 7/75 samples by plate counting, they were
≤LOQ in 60/75 and ≤rLOD in 26/75 (≤1,000 CFU/g in 24/75) samples by qPCR. A
strong and statistically significant correlation was observed between qPCR and
dPCR. Both PCR-based methods correlated significantly with the plate count
method; however, the correlation was moderate. Using the Bland-Altman analysis,
an average agreement was noted between all three methods, although with a large
standard deviation. A significant bias toward overestimation in dPCR was
observed, probably due to the relatively high number of false positive calls. The
linear dynamic range was comparable in both PCR-based methods; however, qPCR
proved to be more suitable for routine use. In the future, the establishment of a
reliable molecular quantification of C. jejuni in poultry samples showing a wide 
range of contamination levels down to the proposed critical limit is needed to
enable time- and cost-effective surveillance throughout all stages in the food
production chain. As both rLOD and LOQ were beyond this limit, a modification of 
the procedure is suggested to include less sample dilution prior to DNA
extraction to enable PCR-based quantification of C. jejuni at the proposed
microbiological criteria.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2017.00331 
PMCID: PMC5332403
PMID: 28303130 


18. Toxicol Lett. 2017 Mar 12;272:68-74. doi: 10.1016/j.toxlet.2017.03.008. [Epub
ahead of print]

Gene expression changes in immune response pathways following oral administration
of tetrabromobisphenol A (TBBPA) in female Wistar Han rats.

Hall SM(1), Coulter SJ(1), Knudsen GA(2), Sanders JM(1), Birnbaum LS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Toxicology and Toxicokinetics, National Cancer Institute at the 
National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS), Research Triangle
Park, NC 27709, United States. (2)Laboratory of Toxicology and Toxicokinetics,
National Cancer Institute at the National Institute of Environmental Health
Sciences (NIEHS), Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, United States. Electronic
address: gabriel.knudsen@nih.gov.

Tetrabromobisphenol A (TBBPA) is a brominated flame retardant used globally at
high volumes, primarily in the epoxy resin of circuit boards. It has been
detected in the environment and in humans. The National Toxicology Program found 
that chronic oral TBBPA treatment of 250mg/kg and higher caused an increased
incidence of uterine lesions in female Wistar Han rats. The present laboratory
has previously reported changes in gene expression associated with estrogen
homeostasis in liver and uterine tissue of adult female Wistar Han rats after
five days of gavage with 250mg/kg of TBBPA. Microarray analysis of tissue from
these same TBBPA-treated rats was performed to detect additional pathways
perturbed by TBBPA. Microarray analysis of uterine tissue detected downregulation
of genes in pathways of the immune response following TBBPA treatment. These
results, along with validation of associated gene expression changes using
droplet digital PCR, are reported here. Our findings suggest mechanisms that may 
be related to estrogen-mediated immunosuppression.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.toxlet.2017.03.008 
PMID: 28300664 


19. J Clin Microbiol. 2017 Mar 15. pii: JCM.00211-17. doi: 10.1128/JCM.00211-17.
[Epub ahead of print]

Applications of Digital PCR for Clinical Microbiology.

Kuypers J(1), Jerome KR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA 
Vaccine and Infectious Diseases Department, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research
Center, Seattle, WA, USA kuypers@uw.edu. (2)Department of Laboratory Medicine,
University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA Vaccine and Infectious Diseases
Department, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA, USA.

Digital PCR (dPCR) is an important new tool for use in the clinical microbiology 
laboratory. Its advantages over quantitative PCR (qPCR), including absolute
quantification without a standard curve, improved precision, improved accuracy in
the presence of inhibitors, and more accurate quantitation when amplification
efficiency is low, make dPCR the assay of choice for several specimen testing
applications. This mini-review will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of
dPCR compared to qPCR, its applications in clinical microbiology and the
considerations for implementation of the method in a clinical laboratory.

Copyright © 2017 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.00211-17 
PMID: 28298452 


20. Mult Scler. 2017 Mar 1:1352458517699874. doi: 10.1177/1352458517699874. [Epub
ahead of print]

Cerebrospinal fluid mtDNA concentration is elevated in multiple sclerosis disease
and responds to treatment.

Leurs CE(1), Podlesniy P(2), Trullas R(2), Balk L(1), Steenwijk MD(3), Malekzadeh
A(4), Piehl F(5), Uitdehaag BM(1), Killestein J(1), van Horssen J(6), Teunissen
CE(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, MS Center Amsterdam, VU University Medical Center,
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. (2)Institute of Biomedical Research of Barcelona,
CSIC-IDIBAPS, CIBERNED, Barcelona, Spain. (3)Departments of Radiology and Nuclear
Medicine, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Neurochemistry Laboratory and Biobank, Department of Clinical Chemistry,
Neuroscience Campus Amsterdam, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands. (5)Neuroimmunology Unit, Department of Clinical Neuroscience,
Karolinska Institutet and Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.
(6)Department of Molecular Cell Biology and Immunology, VU University Medical
Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Mitochondrial dysfunction is increasingly recognized as an important 
feature of multiple sclerosis (MS) pathology and may be relevant for clinical
disease progression. However, it is unknown whether mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA)
levels in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) associate with disease progression and
therapeutic response.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate whether CSF concentrations of mtDNA in MS patients can
serve as a marker of ongoing neuropathology and may be helpful to differentiate
between MS disease subtypes. To explore the effect of disease-modifying therapies
on mtDNA levels in the CSF.
METHODS: CSF mtDNA was measured using a digital polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
CSF mtDNA in two independent MS cohorts. The cohorts included 92
relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) patients, 40 progressive multiple
sclerosis (PMS) patients (27 secondary progressive and 13 primary progressive),
50 various neurologic disease controls, and 5 healthy controls.
RESULTS: Patients with PMS showed a significant increase in CSF mtDNA compared to
non-inflammatory neurologic disease controls. Patients with higher T2 lesion
volumes and lower normalized brain volumes showed increased concentration of
mtDNA. Patients treated with fingolimod had significantly lower mtDNA copy levels
at follow-up compared to baseline.
CONCLUSION: Our results showed a non-specific elevation of concentration of mtDNA
in PMS patients. mtDNA concentrations respond to fingolimod and may be used to
monitor biological effect of this treatment.

DOI: 10.1177/1352458517699874 
PMID: 28294696 


21. J Clin Pathol. 2017 Mar 14. pii: jclinpath-2017-204356. doi:
10.1136/jclinpath-2017-204356. [Epub ahead of print]

Validating a fully automated real-time PCR-based system for use in the molecular 
diagnostic analysis of colorectal carcinoma: a comparison with NGS and IHC.

Colling R(1,)(2,)(3), Wang LM(1,)(4,)(5), Soilleux E(1,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular Pathology, Oxford University Hospitals NHS Trust, John 
Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, UK. (2)Oxford Molecular Diagnostics Centre, Molecular
Haematology, Oxford University Hospitals NHS Trust, John Radcliffe Hospital,
Oxford, UK. (3)Department of Oncology, University of Oxford, John Radcliffe
Hospital, Oxford, UK. (4)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Changi General
Hospital, Singapore, Singapore. (5)Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research,
University of Oxford, Old Road Campus Research Building, Oxford, UK. (6)Nuffield 
Division of Clinical Laboratory Sciences, University of Oxford, John Radcliffe
Hospital, Oxford, UK.

BACKGROUND: Molecular testing is increasingly needed in colorectal carcinoma
(CRC) and the current clinically relevant mutations are in BRAF, KRAS and NRAS.
This study aimed to further validate a new alternative polymerase chain reaction 
(PCR) platform (Idylla, Biocartis) against existing next-generation sequencing
(NGS) and immunohistochemistry (IHC) assays.
METHODS: 56 Idylla tests were performed on 43 CRC cases, in a total of 74
comparisons against an NGS panel (Ion Torrent) and the VE1 (anti-BRAF) antibody
IHC. Discrepant cases were also compared with either conventional (Cobas) or
droplet digital PCR (Bio-Rad).
RESULTS: Idylla showed an overall concordance of 100% (95% CI 93% to 100%) with
comparator molecular testing and indications were that Idylla is likely to be
more sensitive than routine NGS. BRAF IHC showed 90% concordance with NGS (95% CI
70% to 97%).
CONCLUSIONS: This study validates Idylla in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded CRC
tissue. BRAF IHC, however, is an unreliable substitute for molecular testing in
CRC.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/.

DOI: 10.1136/jclinpath-2017-204356 
PMID: 28292978 


22. Virus Res. 2017 Mar 10;233:42-50. doi: 10.1016/j.virusres.2017.02.011. [Epub
ahead of print]

Preparation of MS2-based nanoparticles as control and standard materials for the 
molecular detection of dengue virus serotypes.

Fu Y(1), Wang G(2), Wu Q(3), Yang X(3), Zhang R(4), Zhang K(4), Lin G(4), Han
Y(4), Bao L(5), Li Z(3), Li J(6).

Author information: 
(1)National Center for Clinical Laboratories, Beijing Hospital, National Center
of Gerontology, Peking University Fifth School of Clinical Medicine, Beijing,
People's Republic of China; Graduate School, Peking Union Medical College,
Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, National Center for Clinical Laboratories,
Beijing Hospital, National Center of Gerontology, Beijing, People's Republic of
China; Department of Nuclear Medicine, the First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing
Medical University, Nanjing, People's Republic of China. (2)Department of
Clinical Laboratory, National Cancer Center/Cancer Hospital Chinese Academy of
Medical Science & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, People's Republic of
China. (3)National Center for Clinical Laboratories, Beijing Hospital, National
Center of Gerontology, Peking University Fifth School of Clinical Medicine,
Beijing, People's Republic of China; Graduate School, Peking Union Medical
College, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, National Center for Clinical
Laboratories, Beijing Hospital, National Center of Gerontology, Beijing, People's
Republic of China. (4)National Center for Clinical Laboratories, Beijing
Hospital, National Center of Gerontology, Peking University Fifth School of
Clinical Medicine, Beijing, People's Republic of China. (5)Department of Nuclear 
Medicine, the First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing,
People's Republic of China. (6)National Center for Clinical Laboratories, Beijing
Hospital, National Center of Gerontology, Peking University Fifth School of
Clinical Medicine, Beijing, People's Republic of China; Graduate School, Peking
Union Medical College, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, National Center for
Clinical Laboratories, Beijing Hospital, National Center of Gerontology, Beijing,
People's Republic of China. Electronic address: jmli@nccl.org.cn.

To quantify dengue virus (DENV) and evaluate the performance of clinical
laboratories using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR)
assays, we constructed high-efficiency expression systems to produce DENV-1 to 4 
nanoparticles and assessed their suitability as standard and control materials in
20 laboratories across China. Targeted gene sequences of DENV-1 to 4 were
synthesized and inserted into pACYC-Duet 1-MS2 recombinant plasmids to generate
corresponding nanoparticle expression systems. After collection, verification,
and quantification by digital PCR (dPCR), DENV-1 to 4 nanoparticles were prepared
as control and standard materials. Five positive and three negative samples of
each DENV serotype in every panel were used for assessing the performance of the 
participating laboratories across China, as well as standard materials for the
quantitative detection of DENV using qRT-PCR assays. The accuracy, sensitivity,
and specificity of qRT-PCR used by the 20 evaluated laboratories were 89.6
(569/635), 85.1 (336/395), and 97.1% (233/240), respectively. Overall, sixteen
(80.0%) laboratories were qualified in detecting DENV, among which five (25.0%)
were designated as "competent", eleven (55.0%) were defined as "acceptable", and 
four (20%) were considered to be "improvable". The results generated from the
DENV standard samples were significantly positively correlated with those
generated by dPCR (r(2)=0.8698, P<0.001). In summary, DENV nanoparticles could
potentially be used as controls for improving the performance of laboratories and
as standards for the quantitative detection of DENV.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virusres.2017.02.011 
PMID: 28288812 


23. Lung Cancer. 2017 Apr;106:138-144. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2017.02.001. Epub 2017 
Feb 4.

Plasma epidermal growth factor receptor mutation testing with a chip-based
digital PCR system in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer.

Kasahara N(1), Kenmotsu H(2), Serizawa M(3), Umehara R(4), Ono A(5), Hisamatsu
Y(6), Wakuda K(5), Omori S(5), Nakashima K(5), Taira T(7), Naito T(5), Murakami
H(5), Koh Y(8), Mori K(9), Endo M(10), Nakajima T(11), Yamada M(12), Kusuhara
M(4), Takahashi T(5).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Thoracic Oncology, Shizuoka Cancer Center, Japan; Department of
Medicine and Molecular Science, Gunma University Graduate School of Medicine,
3-39-15, Showa-machi, Maebashi, Gunma 371-8511, Japan. (2)Division of Thoracic
Oncology, Shizuoka Cancer Center, Japan. Electronic address: h.kenmotsu@scchr.jp.
(3)Drug Discovery and Development Division, Shizuoka Cancer Center Research
Institute, Japan. Electronic address: m.serizawa@scchr.jp. (4)Drug Discovery and 
Development Division, Shizuoka Cancer Center Research Institute, Japan.
(5)Division of Thoracic Oncology, Shizuoka Cancer Center, Japan. (6)Division of
Thoracic Oncology, Shizuoka Cancer Center, Japan; Department of Medical Oncology 
and Hematology, Oita University Faculty of Medicine, 1-1 Idaigaoka, Hasamamachi, 
Yufu, Oita, 879-5593, Japan. (7)Division of Thoracic Oncology, Shizuoka Cancer
Center, Japan; Division of Respiratory Medicine, Minami Kyushu National Hospital,
1882 Kida, Kajiki-chou, Aira, Kagoshima, 899-5293, Japan. (8)Third Department of 
Internal Medicine, Wakayama Medical University, 811-1 Kimiidera, Wakayama,
Wakayama, 641-8509, Japan. (9)Clinical Trial Coordination Office, Shizuoka Cancer
Center, Japan. (10)Division of Diagnostic Radiology, Shizuoka Cancer Center,
Japan. (11)Division of Diagnostic Pathology, Shizuoka Cancer Center, 1007
Shimonagakubo, Nagaizumi-chou, Suntou-gun, Shizuoka, 411-8777, Japan.
(12)Department of Medicine and Molecular Science, Gunma University Graduate
School of Medicine, 3-39-15, Showa-machi, Maebashi, Gunma 371-8511, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation testing is a
companion diagnostic to determine eligibility for treatment with EGFR tyrosine
kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Recently,
plasma-based EGFR testing by digital polymerase chain reaction (dPCR), which
enables accurate quantification of target DNA, has shown promise as a minimally
invasive diagnostic. Here, we aimed to evaluate the accuracy of a plasma-based
EGFR mutation test developed using chip-based dPCR-based detection of 3 EGFR
mutations (exon 19 deletions, L858R in exon 21, and T790M in exon 20).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-nine patients with NSCLC harboring EGFR-activating
mutations were enrolled, and circulating free DNAs (cfDNAs) were extracted from
the plasma of 21 and 28 patients before treatment and after progression following
EGFR-TKI treatment, respectively.
RESULTS: Using reference genomic DNA containing each mutation, the detection
limit of each assay was determined to be 0.1%. The sensitivity and specificity of
detecting exon 19 deletions and L858R mutations, calculated by comparing the
mutation status in the corresponding tumors, were 70.6% and 93.3%, and 66.7% and 
100%, respectively, showing similar results compared with previous studies. T790M
was detected in 43% of 28 cfDNAs after progression with EGFR-TKI treatment, but
in no cfDNAs before the start of the treatment.
CONCLUSION: This chip-based dPCR assay can facilitate detection of EGFR mutations
in cfDNA as a minimally invasive method in clinical settings.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2017.02.001 
PMID: 28285688 


24. Neuromuscul Disord. 2017 Feb 6. pii: S0960-8966(16)31158-0. doi:
10.1016/j.nmd.2017.02.002. [Epub ahead of print]

Establishing a reference dataset for the authentication of spinal muscular
atrophy cell lines using STR profiling and digital PCR.

Stabley DL(1), Holbrook J(1), Harris AW(2), Swoboda KJ(3), Crawford TO(4),
Sol-Church K(5), Butchbach ME(6).

Author information: 
(1)Nemours Biomolecular Core Laboratory, Nemours Biomedical Research, Nemours
Alfred I. duPont Hospital for Children, Wilmington, DE, USA. (2)Center for
Applied Clinical Genomics, Nemours Biomedical Research, Nemours Alfred I. duPont 
Hospital for Children, Wilmington, DE, USA. (3)Neurogenetics Research Program,
Center for Human Genetics Research, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA,
USA. (4)Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA;
Department of Pediatrics, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(5)Nemours Biomolecular Core Laboratory, Nemours Biomedical Research, Nemours
Alfred I. duPont Hospital for Children, Wilmington, DE, USA; Center for Pediatric
Research, Nemours Biomedical Research, Nemours Alfred I. duPont Hospital for
Children, Wilmington, DE, USA; Department of Pediatrics, Thomas Jefferson
University, Philadelphia, PA, USA. (6)Center for Applied Clinical Genomics,
Nemours Biomedical Research, Nemours Alfred I. duPont Hospital for Children,
Wilmington, DE, USA; Center for Pediatric Research, Nemours Biomedical Research, 
Nemours Alfred I. duPont Hospital for Children, Wilmington, DE, USA; Department
of Pediatrics, Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, PA, USA; Department of 
Biological Sciences, University of Delaware, Newark, DE, USA. Electronic address:
butchbach@nemoursresearch.org.

Fibroblasts and lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs) derived from individuals with
spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) have been and continue to be essential for
translational SMA research. Authentication of cell lines helps ensure
reproducibility and rigor in biomedical research. This quality control measure
identifies mislabeling or cross-contamination of cell lines and prevents
misinterpretation of data. Unfortunately, authentication of SMA cell lines used
in various studies has not been possible because of a lack of a reference. In
this study, we provide said reference so that SMA cell lines can be subsequently 
authenticated. We use short tandem repeat (STR) profiling and digital PCR (dPCR),
which quantifies SMN1 and SMN2 copy numbers, to generate molecular identity codes
for fibroblasts and LCLs that are commonly used in SMA research. Using these
molecular identity codes, we clarify the familial relationships within a set of
fibroblasts commonly used in SMA research. This study presents the first cell
line reference set for the SMA research community and demonstrates its usefulness
for re-identification and authentication of lines commonly used as in vitro
models for future studies.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nmd.2017.02.002 
PMID: 28284873 


25. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2017 Mar 10. doi: 10.1007/s10549-017-4190-z. [Epub ahead
of print]

Detection of ESR1 mutations in plasma and tumors from metastatic breast cancer
patients using next-generation sequencing.

Yanagawa T(1), Kagara N(2), Miyake T(1), Tanei T(1), Naoi Y(1), Shimoda M(1),
Shimazu K(1), Kim SJ(1), Noguchi S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Breast and Endocrine Surgery, Osaka University Graduate School
of Medicine, 2-2-E10 Yamadaoka, Suita-shi, Osaka, 565-0871, Japan. (2)Department 
of Breast and Endocrine Surgery, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine,
2-2-E10 Yamadaoka, Suita-shi, Osaka, 565-0871, Japan.
kagaran@onsurg.med.osaka-u.ac.jp.

PURPOSE: Liquid biopsy using digital PCR (dPCR) has been widely used for the
screening of ESR1 mutations, since they are frequently identified in the hotspot.
However, dPCR is limited to the known mutations. Therefore, we aimed to analyze
the utility of next-generation sequencing (NGS) to discover novel ESR1 mutations.
METHODS: Whole exon sequencing of the ESR1 gene using NGS was performed in 16
primary and 47 recurrent tumor samples and 38 plasma samples from hormone
receptor-positive metastatic breast cancer patients. Functional analyses were
then performed for the novel mutations we detected.
RESULTS: We identified no mutations in primary tumors and six mutations in five
recurrent tumors, including three types of known mutations (Y537C, Y537N, and
D538G) and two novel mutations (E279V and G557R). We also identified seven
mutations in five plasma samples, including three types of known mutations
(S463P, Y537S, and D538G) and one mutation not reported in COSMIC database
(L536H). All nine patients with ESR1 mutations were treated with aromatase
inhibitors (AIs) prior to sampling, and the mutations were frequently detected in
patients who received AI treatments in the metastatic setting. Among the three
novel mutations (E279V, L536H, and G557R), L536H, but not E279V and G557R, showed
ligand-independent activity. All three mutant proteins showed nuclear
localization and had no relation with non-genomic ER pathways.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the molecular mechanisms of the E279V and G557R mutations
remain unclear, our data suggest the utility of NGS as a liquid biopsy for
metastatic breast cancer patients and the potential to identify novel ESR1
mutations.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-017-4190-z 
PMID: 28283903 


26. Retrovirology. 2017 Mar 9;14(1):17. doi: 10.1186/s12977-017-0344-7.

A mature macrophage is a principal HIV-1 cellular reservoir in humanized mice
after treatment with long acting antiretroviral therapy.

Araínga M(1), Edagwa B(1), Mosley RL(1), Poluektova LY(1), Gorantla S(1),
Gendelman HE(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Experimental Neuroscience, 985880 Nebraska
Medical Center, College of Medicine, University of Nebraska Medical Center,
Omaha, NE, 68198-5880, USA. (2)Department of Pharmacology and Experimental
Neuroscience, 985880 Nebraska Medical Center, College of Medicine, University of 
Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE, 68198-5880, USA. hegendel@unmc.edu.

BACKGROUND: Despite improved clinical outcomes seen following antiretroviral
therapy (ART), resting CD4+ T cells continue to harbor latent human
immunodeficiency virus type one (HIV-1). However, such cells are not likely the
solitary viral reservoir and as such defining where and how others harbor virus
is imperative for eradication measures. To such ends, we used HIV-1ADA-infected
NOD.Cg-Prkdc (scid) Il2rg (tm1Wjl) /SzJ mice reconstituted with a human immune
system to explore two long-acting ART regimens investigating their abilities to
affect viral cell infection and latency. At 6 weeks of infection animals were
divided into four groups. One received long-acting (LA) cabotegravir (CAB) and
rilpivirine (RVP) (2ART), a second received LA CAB, lamivudine, abacavir and RVP 
(4ART), a third were left untreated and a fourth served as an uninfected control.
After 4 weeks of LA ART treatment, blood, spleen and bone marrow (BM) cells were 
collected then phenotypically characterized. CD4+ T cell subsets, macrophages and
hematopoietic progenitor cells were analyzed for HIV-1 nucleic acids by droplet
digital PCR.
RESULTS: Plasma viral loads were reduced by two log10 or to undetectable levels
in the 2 and 4ART regimens, respectively. Numbers and distributions of CD4+
memory and regulatory T cells, macrophages and hematopoietic progenitor cells
were significantly altered by HIV-1 infection and by both ART regimens. ART
reduced viral DNA and RNA in all cell and tissue compartments. While memory cells
were the dominant T cell reservoir, integrated HIV-1 DNA was also detected in the
BM and spleen macrophages in both regimen-treated mice.
CONCLUSION: Despite vigorous ART regimens, HIV-1 DNA and RNA were easily detected
in mature macrophages supporting their potential role as an infectious viral
reservoir.

DOI: 10.1186/s12977-017-0344-7 
PMCID: PMC5345240
PMID: 28279181 


27. J Virus Erad. 2017 Jan 1;3(1):66-68.

HIV Reservoir Characterization Symposium: 19 September 2016, Ghent, Belgium.

Malatinkova E(1), De Spiegelaere W(2), Vandekerckhove L(1), Sips M(1).

Author information: 
(1)HIV Cure Research Center , Department of Internal Medicine , Faculty of
Medicine and Health Sciences , Ghent University , Belgium. (2)Department of
Morphology , Faculty of Veterinary Sciences , Ghent University , Belgium.

The HIV Cure Research Center (HCRC) in Ghent organised the first HIV Reservoir
Characterization Symposium, and brought together virologists, molecular
biologists, immunologists and clinicians to discuss the most recent developments 
in HIV reservoir characterisation with a view to achieving an HIV cure. The
one-day symposium covered new developments in the field of HIV reservoir and HIV 
cure research, with the latest news on the European HIV cure trials. This report 
summarises the major themes discussed during the symposium.


PMCID: PMC5337424
PMID: 28275461 


28. Parasitology. 2017 Mar 9:1-11. doi: 10.1017/S003118201700021X. [Epub ahead of
print]

A novel duplex ddPCR assay for the diagnosis of schistosomiasis japonica: proof
of concept in an experimental mouse model.

Weerakoon KG(1), Gordon CA(1), Cai P(1), Gobert GN(1), Duke M(1), Williams GM(2),
McManus DP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Parasitology Laboratory,QIMR Berghofer Medical Research
Institute,Brisbane,Australia. (2)School of Public Health,University of
Queensland,Brisbane,Australia.

The current World Health Organization strategic plan targets the elimination of
schistosomiasis as a public health problem by 2025 and accurate diagnostics will 
play a pivotal role in achieving this goal. DNA-based detection methods provide a
viable alternative to some of the commonly used tests, notably microscopy and
serology, for the diagnosis of schistosomiasis. The detection of parasite
cell-free DNA in different clinical samples is a recent valuable advance, which
provides significant benefits for accurate disease diagnosis. Here we validated a
novel duplex droplet digital PCR assay for the diagnosis of Chinese (SjC) and
Philippine (SjP) strains of Schistosoma japonicum infection in a mouse model. The
assay proved applicable for both SjC and SjP infections and capable of detecting 
infection at a very early intra-mammalian stage in conveniently obtainable
samples (urine and saliva) as well as in serum and feces. The target DNA copy
numbers obtained in the assay showed a positive correlation with the infection
burden assessed by direct traditional parasitology. The potential to detect
parasite DNA in urine and saliva has important practical implications for
large-scale epidemiological screening programmes in the future, particularly in
terms of logistical convenience, and the assay has the potential to be a valuable
additional tool for the diagnosis of schistosomiasis japonica.

DOI: 10.1017/S003118201700021X 
PMID: 28274280 


29. Int J Mol Sci. 2017 Mar 7;18(3). pii: E576. doi: 10.3390/ijms18030576.

The Characterization of GSDMB Splicing and Backsplicing Profiles Identifies Novel
Isoforms and a Circular RNA That Are Dysregulated in Multiple Sclerosis.

Cardamone G(1), Paraboschi EM(2), Rimoldi V(3,)(4), Duga S(5,)(6), Soldà
G(7,)(8), Asselta R(9,)(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Humanitas University, Via Manzoni 113,
20089 Rozzano, Milan, Italy. giulia.cardamone@st.hunimed.eu. (2)Department of
Biomedical Sciences, Humanitas University, Via Manzoni 113, 20089 Rozzano, Milan,
Italy. elvezia_maria.paraboschi@humanitasresearch.it. (3)Department of Biomedical
Sciences, Humanitas University, Via Manzoni 113, 20089 Rozzano, Milan, Italy.
valeria.rimoldi@humanitasresearch.it. (4)Humanitas Clinical and Research Center, 
Via Manzoni 56, 20089 Rozzano, Milan, Italy.
valeria.rimoldi@humanitasresearch.it. (5)Department of Biomedical Sciences,
Humanitas University, Via Manzoni 113, 20089 Rozzano, Milan, Italy.
stefano.duga@hunimed.eu. (6)Humanitas Clinical and Research Center, Via Manzoni
56, 20089 Rozzano, Milan, Italy. stefano.duga@hunimed.eu. (7)Department of
Biomedical Sciences, Humanitas University, Via Manzoni 113, 20089 Rozzano, Milan,
Italy. giulia.solda@hunimed.eu. (8)Humanitas Clinical and Research Center, Via
Manzoni 56, 20089 Rozzano, Milan, Italy. giulia.solda@hunimed.eu. (9)Department
of Biomedical Sciences, Humanitas University, Via Manzoni 113, 20089 Rozzano,
Milan, Italy. rosanna.asselta@hunimed.eu. (10)Humanitas Clinical and Research
Center, Via Manzoni 56, 20089 Rozzano, Milan, Italy. rosanna.asselta@hunimed.eu.

Abnormalities in alternative splicing (AS) are emerging as recurrent features in 
autoimmune diseases (AIDs). In particular, a growing body of evidence suggests
the existence of a pathogenic association between a generalized defect in
splicing regulatory genes and multiple sclerosis (MS). Moreover, several studies 
have documented an unbalance in alternatively-spliced isoforms in MS patients
possibly contributing to the disease etiology. In this work, using a combination 
of PCR-based techniques (reverse-transcription (RT)-PCR, fluorescent-competitive,
real-time, and digital RT-PCR assays), we investigated the alternatively-spliced 
gene encoding Gasdermin B, GSDMB, which was repeatedly associated with
susceptibility to asthma and AIDs. The in-depth characterization of GSDMB AS and 
backsplicing profiles led us to the identification of an exonic circular RNA
(ecircRNA) as well as of novel GSDMB in-frame and out-of-frame isoforms. The
non-productive splicing variants were shown to be downregulated by the
nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD) in human cell lines, suggesting that GSDMB
levels are significantly modulated by NMD. Importantly, both AS isoforms and the 
identified ecircRNA were significantly dysregulated in peripheral blood
mononuclear cells of relapsing-remitting MS patients compared to controls,
further supporting the notion that aberrant RNA metabolism is a characteristic
feature of the disease.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms18030576 
PMID: 28272342 


30. J Neuromuscul Dis. 2017;4(1):59-66. doi: 10.3233/JND-170209.

SMN Blood Levels in a Porcine Model of Spinal Muscular Atrophy.

Iyer CC(1), Wang X(1), Renusch SR(1), Duque SI(1), Wehr AM(2), Mo XM(2), McGovern
VL(1), Arnold WD(3,)(4), Burghes AH(1), Kolb SJ(1,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry and Pharmacology, The Ohio State University
Wexner Medical Center, Columbus, Oh, USA. (2)Center for Biostatistics, The Ohio
State University Wexner Medical Center, Columbus, Oh, USA. (3)Department of
Neurology, The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center, Columbus, Oh, USA.
(4)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, The Ohio State University 
Wexner Medical Center, Columbus, Oh, USA.

BACKGROUND: Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) is an autosomal recessive motor neuron 
disease that results in loss of spinal motor neurons, muscular weakness and, in
severe cases, respiratory failure and death. SMA is caused by a deletion or
mutation of the SMN1 gene and retention of the SMN2 gene that leads to low SMN
expression levels.The measurement of SMN mRNA levels in peripheral blood samples 
has been used in SMA clinical studies as a pharmacodynamic biomarker for response
to therapies designed to increase SMN levels. We recently developed a postnatal
porcine model of SMA by the viral delivery of a short-hairpin RNA (shRNA)
targeting porcine SMN (pSMN). scAAV9-mediated knockdown of pSMN mRNA at postnatal
day 5 results in denervation, weakness and motor neuron and ventral root axon
loss that begins 3-4 weeks after viral delivery, and this phenotype can be
ameliorated by subsequent viral delivery of human SMN (hSMN).
OBJECTIVE: To determine if the effect of modulating SMN levels using gene therapy
can be measured in blood.
METHODS: We measured expression of pSMN mRNA and hSMN mRNA by quantitative
droplet digital PCR (ddPCR).
RESULTS: We found that the endogenous expression of pSMN mRNA in blood increases 
in the first month of life. However, there were no significant differences in
blood levels of pSMN mRNA after knock-down or of human SMN mRNA after gene
therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results, obtained in a large animal model of SMA that is similar
in size and anatomy to human infants, suggest that measurement of SMN mRNA levels
in blood may not be informative in SMA clinical trials involving intrathecal
delivery of SMN-modulating therapies.

DOI: 10.3233/JND-170209 
PMID: 28269795 


31. Conf Proc IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2016 Aug;2016:6210-6213. doi:
10.1109/EMBC.2016.7592147.

Savitzky-Golay coupled with digital bandpass filtering as a pre-processing
technique in the quantitative analysis of glucose from near infrared spectra.

Patchava KC, Alrezj O, Benaissa M, Behairy H.

This paper proposes a novel pre-processing method based on combining bandpass
with Savitzky-Golay filtering to further improve the prediction performance of
the linear calibration models Principal Component Regression (PCR) and Partial
Least Squares Regression (PLSR) in near infrared spectroscopy. The proposed
method is compared to the highly efficient RReliefF pre-processing technique for 
further evaluation. The developed calibration models have been validated to
predict the glucose concentration from near infrared spectra of a mixture of
glucose and human serum albumin in a phosphate buffer solution. The results show 
that the proposed technique improves the prediction performance of both the PCR
and PLSR models and achieve better results than the RReliefF technique.

DOI: 10.1109/EMBC.2016.7592147 
PMID: 28269670 


32. J Mol Diagn. 2017 Mar 4. pii: S1525-1578(17)30096-X. doi:
10.1016/j.jmoldx.2017.01.004. [Epub ahead of print]

Droplet Digital PCR Is a Reliable Tool for Monitoring Minimal Residual Disease in
Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia.

Brunetti C(1), Anelli L(1), Zagaria A(1), Minervini A(1), Minervini CF(1),
Casieri P(1), Coccaro N(1), Cumbo C(1), Tota G(1), Impera L(1), Orsini P(1),
Specchia G(1), Albano F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Hematology Section, Department of Emergency and Organ Transplantation,
University of Bari, Bari, Italy. (2)Hematology Section, Department of Emergency
and Organ Transplantation, University of Bari, Bari, Italy. Electronic address:
francesco.albano@uniba.it.

Nested PCR (nPCR) and real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR) are well-established
methods for monitoring minimal residual disease (MRD) in acute promyelocytic
leukemia (APL). Despite their remarkable sensitivity and specificity, both
methods have inherent limitations, such as qualitative MRD evaluation and
relative quantification. Herein, we used droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) to monitor
MRD in 21 APL patients and compared its performance with nPCR and qPCR. After
assessing the limit of detection (LOD) for each technique on serial dilutions of 
PML-RARA bcr1 and bcr3 transcripts, a total of 48 follow-up samples were analyzed
and the results compared. ddPCR showed good linearity and efficiency and reached 
an LOD comparable or even superior to nPCR and qPCR. When tested on primary
samples, ddPCR exhibited a sensitivity and specificity of ≥95% and ≥91% for bcr1 
and bcr3 transcripts and displayed a significant concordance with both
techniques, particularly with nPCR. The peculiar advantage of ddPCR-based
monitoring of MRD is represented by absolute quantification, which provides
crucial information for the management of patients whose MRD fluctuates under the
LOD of qPCR and is detectable, but not quantifiable, by nPCR. Our findings
highlight ddPCR as a reliable complementary approach to monitor MRD in APL, and
suggest its advantageous application, particularly for the molecular follow-up of
patients at high risk of relapse.

Copyright © 2017 American Society for Investigative Pathology and the Association
for Molecular Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2017.01.004 
PMID: 28268092 


33. Hum Immunol. 2017 Mar 4. pii: S0198-8859(17)30039-3. doi:
10.1016/j.humimm.2017.03.002. [Epub ahead of print]

Rapid detection of donor cell free DNA in lung transplant recipients with
rejections using donor-recipient HLA mismatch.

Zou J(1), Duffy B(2), Slade M(3), Young AL(4), Steward N(5), Hachem R(3),
Mohanakumar T(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA. Electronic address: jzou@mdanderson.org. (2)HLA
Laboratory, Barnes-Jewish Hospital, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA. (3)Department of
Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Hematology and Oncology, Washington
University School of Medicine, Saint Louis, MO, USA; Center for Genome Sciences
and Systems Biology, Washington University School of Medicine, Saint Louis, MO,
USA. (5)Department of Surgery, Washington University School of Medicine, St.
Louis, MO 63110, USA. (6)Norton Thoracic Institute Research Laboratory, St.
Joseph's Hospital & Medical Center, Phoenix, AZ 85013, USA.

Fiberoptic bronchoscopy and transbronchial lung biopsy are currently the gold
standard for detection of acute rejection following human lung transplantation
(LTx). However, these surveillance procedures are expensive and invasive. Up to
now, there are few new methods that have demonstrated clinical utility for
detecting early stages of rejection following human lung transplantation. We
optimized and technically validated a novel method to quantify donor-derived
circulating cell free DNA (DcfDNA) that can be used as an early biomarker for
lung allograft rejection. The method involves the initial development of a panel 
of probes in which each probe will specifically target a unique sequence of a
human leukocyte antigen (HLA) allele. After transplantation, donor/recipient
specific probes are chosen based on the mismatched HLA loci, followed by droplet 
digital PCR (ddPCR) used as a quantitative assay to accurately track the trace
amount of DcfDNA in an ample excess of recipient DNA background. The average
false positive rate noted was about 1 per 800,000 molecules. Serially 2-fold
diluted cfDNA, representing donor fractions of cfDNA, were spiked into a constant
level of cfDNA representing the recipient cfDNA. The fraction of spiked cfDNA was
measured and quantitative linearity was observed across seven serially diluted
cfDNA samples. We were able to measure the minor portion of cfDNA as low as 0.2% 
of total cfDNA. We subsequently applied the method to a pilot set of 18 LTx
recipients grouped into biopsy-proven acute rejection, bronchiolitis obliterans
syndrome (BOS) or stable groups. Serial plasma samples were used to identify the 
percentage of DcfDNA over total cfDNA. The level of DcfDNA was significantly
elevated in patients diagnosed with acute rejection (10.30±2.80, n=18), compared 
to that from stable (1.71±0.50, n=24) or from BOS patients (2.52±0.62, n=20). In 
conclusion, we present results validating the application of digital PCR to
quantify DcfDNA assay in primary clinical specimens, which demonstrate that
DcfDNA can be used as an early non-invasive biomarker for acute lung allograft
rejection.

Copyright © 2017 American Society for Histocompatibility and Immunogenetics.
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humimm.2017.03.002 
PMID: 28267558 


34. BMC Genomics. 2017 Mar 6;18(1):222. doi: 10.1186/s12864-017-3595-8.

Segmental duplications and evolutionary acquisition of UV damage response in the 
SPATA31 gene family of primates and humans.

Bekpen C(1), Künzel S(2), Xie C(2), Eaaswarkhanth M(3,)(4), Lin YL(3), Gokcumen
O(3), Akdis CA(5), Tautz D(6).

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology, August-Thienemann Strasse 2,
24306, Plön, Germany. bekpen@evolbio.mpg.de. (2)Max-Planck Institute for
Evolutionary Biology, August-Thienemann Strasse 2, 24306, Plön, Germany.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, State University of New York at Buffalo,
Buffalo, 14260-1300, NY, USA. (4)Present address: Population Genomics and Genetic
Epidemiology Unit, Dasman Diabetes Institute, P.O.Box 1180, Dasman, 15462,
Kuwait. (5)Swiss Institute of Allergy and Asthma Research (SIAF), Davos, CH-7270,
Switzerland. (6)Max-Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology, August-Thienemann 
Strasse 2, 24306, Plön, Germany. tautz@evolbio.mpg.de.

BACKGROUND: Segmental duplications are an abundant source for novel gene
functions and evolutionary adaptations. This mechanism of generating novelty was 
very active during the evolution of primates particularly in the human lineage.
Here, we characterize the evolution and function of the SPATA31 gene family
(former designation FAM75A), which was previously shown to be among the gene
families with the strongest signal of positive selection in hominoids. The mouse 
homologue for this gene family is a single copy gene expressed during
spermatogenesis.
RESULTS: We show that in primates, the SPATA31 gene duplicated into SPATA31A and 
SPATA31C types and broadened the expression into many tissues. Each type became
further segmentally duplicated in the line towards humans with the largest number
of full-length copies found for SPATA31A in humans. Copy number estimates of
SPATA31A based on digital PCR show an average of 7.5 with a range of 5-11 copies 
per diploid genome among human individuals. The primate SPATA31 genes also
acquired new protein domains that suggest an involvement in UV response and DNA
repair. We generated antibodies and show that the protein is re-localized from
the nucleolus to the whole nucleus upon UV-irradiation suggesting a UV damage
response. We used CRISPR/Cas mediated mutagenesis to knockout copies of the gene 
in human primary fibroblast cells. We find that cell lines with reduced
functional copies as well as naturally occurring low copy number HFF cells show
enhanced sensitivity towards UV-irradiation.
CONCLUSION: The acquisition of new SPATA31 protein functions and its broadening
of expression may be related to the evolution of the diurnal life style in
primates that required a higher UV tolerance. The increased segmental
duplications in hominoids as well as its fast evolution suggest the acquisition
of further specific functions particularly in humans.

DOI: 10.1186/s12864-017-3595-8 
PMCID: PMC5338094
PMID: 28264649 


35. Oncol Rep. 2017 Apr;37(4):2506-2512. doi: 10.3892/or.2017.5456. Epub 2017 Feb 15.

Clinical and molecular assessment of regorafenib monotherapy.

Kakizawa N(1), Suzuki K(1), Fukui T(1), Takayama Y(1), Ichida K(1), Muto Y(1),
Hasegawa F(1), Watanabe F(1), Kikugawa R(1), Tsujinaka S(1), Futsuhara K(1),
Miyakura Y(1), Noda H(1), Rikiyama T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Saitama Medical Center, Jichi Medical University,
Omiya-ku, Saitama 330-8503, Japan.

Regorafenib has shown survival benefits in metastatic colorectal cancer patients 
who were exacerbated after all standard therapies. Some patients, however,
exhibit severe adverse events (AEs) resulting in treatment discontinuation.
Therefore, the selection of patients likely to benefit from regorafenib is
crucial. Twenty patients were treated with regorafenib for metastatic colorectal 
cancer; 122 plasma samples were taken from 16 of these patients for monitoring of
circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) in the blood. The treatment response, AEs, overall 
survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS) and tumor morphologic changes on
CT images were evaluated. KRAS mutant ctDNA was determined using digital PCR.
Median PFS and OS were 2.5 and 5.9 months, respectively. Treatment was
discontinued because of disease progression (PD) in 10 patients, and AEs in
another 10 patients. AEs included hyperbilirubinemia, severe fatigue and skin
rash. Hyperbilirubinemia was seen in two patients with multiple bilateral liver
metastases, and severe fatigue in another 2 patients with poor performance status
(PS). These severe AEs resulted in treatment discontinuation. Ten patients had a 
median PFS of 2.1 months with AE related discontinuation; PD occurred at 3.5
months (p=0.00334). Four patients exhibited a morphologic response, achieving
better PFS times of 3.5, 5.3, 5.6 and 14.2 months. Emergence of the KRAS mutation
in ctDNA was observed during anti-EGFR antibody treatment in 3 patients among 11 
with KRAS wild-type tumors; it was detectable in the blood prior to radiographic 
detection of PD. Moreover, the KRAS mutation declined in two patients during
regorafenib monotherapy. These patients were re-challenged with anti-EGFR
antibody. Patients with extensive multiple liver metastases or poor PS are
unlikely to benefit from regorafenib. Patients with a morphologic response will
probably benefit from regorafenib with adequate management of other AEs. KRAS
monitoring in ctDNA could be useful regarding treatment response and in
determining treatment strategy.

DOI: 10.3892/or.2017.5456 
PMID: 28259999 


36. Gastrointest Endosc. 2017 Mar 1. pii: S0016-5107(17)30128-1. doi:
10.1016/j.gie.2017.02.026. [Epub ahead of print]

Using an endoscopic distal cap to collect pancreatic fluid from the ampulla (with
video).

Suenaga M(1), Sadakari Y(1), Almario JA(1), Borges M(1), Lennon AM(2), Shin
EJ(3), Canto MI(4), Goggins M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, The Sol Goldman Pancreatic Cancer Research Center,
Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions. (2)Department of Medicine, The Sol Goldman
Pancreatic Cancer Research Center, Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions; Department
of Surgery, The Sol Goldman Pancreatic Cancer Research Center, Johns Hopkins
Medical Institutions. (3)Department of Medicine, The Sol Goldman Pancreatic
Cancer Research Center, Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions. (4)Department of
Medicine, The Sol Goldman Pancreatic Cancer Research Center, Johns Hopkins
Medical Institutions; Department of Oncology, The Sol Goldman Pancreatic Cancer
Research Center, Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions. (5)Department of Pathology, 
The Sol Goldman Pancreatic Cancer Research Center, Johns Hopkins Medical
Institutions; Department of Medicine, The Sol Goldman Pancreatic Cancer Research 
Center, Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions; Department of Oncology, The Sol
Goldman Pancreatic Cancer Research Center, Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions.
Electronic address: mgoggins@jhmi.edu.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Duodenal collections of pancreatic fluid can be used as a
source of mutations and other markers of pancreatic ductal neoplasia, but
admixing pancreatic juice with duodenal contents lowers the concentrations of
mutations. Collecting pancreatic fluid directly from the ampulla could yield a
purer sample of pancreatic fluid.
METHODS: We used an endoscopic distal cap attachment to "cap" the ampulla and
collect secretin-stimulated pancreatic fluid samples for 5 minutes from 81
patients undergoing pancreatic evaluation as part of the Cancer of the Pancreas
Screening studies. We compared mutation concentrations (K-ras and G-nas) measured
by droplet-digital PCR (ddPCR) in "cap-collected juice" samples to those found in
juice samples obtained from 77 patients collected by aspiration from the duodenal
lumen without capping the ampulla.
RESULTS: Among all subjects, mutation concentrations were higher in pancreatic
juice samples collected using the endoscopic cap method (median 0.028%,
interquartile range 0-0.077) compared with the non-cap-collected (0.019%,
0-0.044) (P = .055). Among pancreatic juice samples with detectable mutations,
mutation concentrations were higher in the cap-collected juice samples than in
those collected without the cap (0.055%, interquartile range [IQR] 0.026-0.092 vs
0.032%, IQR 0.020-0.066, P = 0.031).
CONCLUSIONS: Collecting pancreatic juice directly from the ampulla using an
endoscopic distal cap yields higher concentrations of pancreatic fluid mutations.

Copyright © 2017 American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gie.2017.02.026 
PMID: 28259593 


37. Zhonghua Nei Ke Za Zhi. 2017 Mar 1;56(3):194-198. doi:
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0578-1426.2017.03.009.

[Genetic analysis of a pedigree with primary hypertrophic osteoarthropathy].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Liu XG(1), Li JY, Bai Y, Zhang LX, Wu X, Ma YY, Chai LJ, Zheng LL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou
University, Zhengzhou 450000, China.

Objective: To analyze the clinical and genetic features of primary hypertrophic
osteoarthropathy (PHO). Methods: The clinical data of one Chinese pedigree of
PHO, namely pachydermoperiostosis (PDP) were collected.Blood samples were drawn
from the propositus and other family members.DNA was extracted and genetic
analysis was performed by Sanger method after PCR.The sequencing data of HPGD
gene exons were analyzed by alignment with sequences from National Center for
Biotechnology Information (NCBI). Results: (1)The propositus represented symptoms
in childhood including clubbing fingers, sweating, seborrhea, joint swelling and 
so on.Periosteal thickening and bone hyperplasia were found by X-ray. (2)The
homozygous mutation named c. 310_311delCT in propositus, which located in the
third exon of HPGD, was identified.His parents carried the same heterozygous
mutation, while his sister did not inherit any mutation of this gene. (3)The
prediction of spatial structure of proteins revealed that the mutant proteins had
about 60% discrepancy compared with wild-type protein, losing a lot of motifs
responsible for combining with coenzyms and prostaglandin E(2), as well as active
sites of enzymes. Conclusions: The clinical manifestations and imaging findings
are helpful to diagnose PDP. Moreover gene mutation analysis ensures the
diagnosis.The structure and function of HPGD gene mutation induce 15-hydroxy
prostaglandin dehydrogenase mutation, contributing to the occurrence of PDP.

Publisher:
目的：通过对一皮肤骨膜增厚症家系遗传学研究，结合国内外相关文献资料，进一步阐述其临床特点及遗传学发病机制。方法：总结、分析一中国汉族皮肤骨膜增厚症家系的临床资料，
抽取先证者及部分亲属的外周血，提取基因组DNA，PCR扩增后，采用Sanger法对HPGD基因全外显子测序，将测序结果与美国国立生物技术信息中心(NCBI)的参考
序列进行比较寻找突变位点并进行遗传学分析。结果：
(1)先证者为儿童时期发病，主要临床表现为杵状指、多汗、皮脂溢、关节肿胀等，X线可发现管状骨骨膜增厚及骨质增生；(2)先证者为HPGD基因3号外显子上c.310_
311delCT纯合突变，其父母均为该位点杂合突变携带者，其姐姐未发现突变；(3)蛋白空间结构预测显示突变蛋白与野生型蛋白相比，肽链改变约60%，缺失大量与辅酶、
前列腺素E(2)(PGE(2))结合区域以及酶活性位点。结论：皮肤骨膜增厚症的临床表现及X线检查有助于诊断，基因检测可以确诊该病。HPGD基因突变引起15-羟基前
列腺素脱氢酶结构及功能发生改变，导致皮肤骨膜增厚症发生。.

PMID: 28253600 


38. Zhonghua Fu Chan Ke Za Zhi. 2017 Feb 25;52(2):93-97. doi:
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0529-567X.2017.02.005.

[Application study of droplet digital PCR to detect maternal cell contamination
in prenatal diagnosis].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Geng J(1), Liu C, Zhou XC, Ma J, Du L, Lu J, Zhou WN, Hu TT, Lyu LJ, Yin AH.

Author information: 
(1)Prenatal Diagnosis Center, Guangdong Women and Children's Hospital, Guangzhou 
Medical University. Guangzhou 511400, China.

Objective: To develop a new method based on droplet digital PCR (DD-PCR) for
detection and quantification of maternal cell contamination in prenatal
diagnosis. Methods: Invasive prenatal samples from 40 couples of
β(IVS-Ⅱ-654)/β(N) thalassemia gene carriers who accepted prenatal diagnosis in
Affiliated Women and Children's Hospital of Guangzhou Medical University from
October 2015 to December 2016 were analyzed retrospectively. Specific primers and
probes were designed. The concentration gradient were 50%, 25%, 12.5%, 6.25%,
3.125%, 1.562 5%. There were 40 groups of prenatal diagnostic samples. Comparing 
DD-PCR with quantitative fluorescent-PCR (QF-PCR) based on the short tandem
repeats for assement of the sensitivity and accuracy of maternal cell
contamination, respectively. Results: DD-PCR could quantify the maternal cell
contamination as low as 1.562 5%. The result was proportional to the dilution
titers. In the 40 prenatal samples, 6 cases (15%, 6/40) of maternal cell
contamination were detected by DD-PCR, while the QF-PCR based on short tandem
repeat showed 3 cases (7.5%, 3/40) with maternal cell contamination, DD-PCR was
more accurate (P=0.002) . Conclusion: DD-PCR is a precise and sensitive method in
the detection of maternal cell contamintation. It could be useful in clinical
application.

Publisher: 目的： 探讨微滴式数字PCR（DD-PCR）技术检测产前诊断标本母体细胞污染的临床应用价值。 方法：
2015年10月至2016年12月间以40例因夫妇双方均为地中海贫血基因β(IVS-Ⅱ-654)/β(N)杂合携带者、在广州医科大学附属广东省妇女儿童医院行侵入性
产前诊断的孕妇作为观察样本。通过设计特异性引物、探针，建立母体细胞污染程度梯度50%、25%、12.5%、6.25%、3.125%、1.562
5%模型，采用DD-PCR技术及短串联重复序列的荧光定量PCR技术检测产前诊断标本母体细胞污染，分别评估两种检测方法的敏感性；并分别检测40组产前诊断标本，以比较
DD-PCR技术与荧光定量PCR技术检测母体细胞污染的准确性。 结果： DD-PCR技术可以检测到产前诊断标本中低至1.562
5%的母体细胞污染，检测结果与母体细胞污染程度梯度改变基本相符，而荧光定量PCR技术只能在母体细胞污染≥6.25%时才提示产前诊断标本存在400
bp的母源性特有峰。DD-PCR技术共检测到6例（15%，6/40）产前诊断标本存在母体细胞污染，荧光定量PCR技术只检测到3例母体细胞污染的产前诊断标本（7.5
%，3/40），两种检测方法比较，DD-PCR技术的准确性更高（P=0.002）。 结论：
DD-PCR技术可对产前诊断标本进行母体细胞污染精确定量，并具有较高的敏感性，具有良好的临床应用价值。.

PMID: 28253571 


39. Comp Biochem Physiol Part D Genomics Proteomics. 2017 Feb 20;22:78-89. doi:
10.1016/j.cbd.2017.01.004. [Epub ahead of print]

Transcriptome analysis and identification of induced genes in the response of
Harmonia axyridis to cold hardiness.

Tang B(1), Liu XJ(1), Shi ZK(1), Shen QD(1), Xu YX(1), Wang S(2), Zhang F(3),
Wang SG(4).

Author information: 
(1)Hangzhou Key Laboratory of Animal Adaptation and Evolution, College of Life
and Environmental Sciences, Hangzhou Normal University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang
310036, China. (2)Institute of Plant and Environment Protection, Beijing Academy 
of Agriculture and Forestry Sciences, Beijing 100089, China. (3)Institute of
Plant and Environment Protection, Beijing Academy of Agriculture and Forestry
Sciences, Beijing 100089, China. Electronic address: zf6131@263.net. (4)Hangzhou 
Key Laboratory of Animal Adaptation and Evolution, College of Life and
Environmental Sciences, Hangzhou Normal University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310036,
China. Electronic address: sgwang@mail.hz.zj.cn.

Harmonia axyridis is an important predatory lady beetle that is a natural enemy
of agricultural and forestry pests. In this research, the cold hardiness induced 
genes and their expression changes in H. axyridis were screened and detected by
the way of the transcriptome and qualitative real-time PCR under normal and low
temperatures, using high-throughput transcriptome and digital gene-expression-tag
technologies. We obtained a 10Gb transcriptome and an 8Mb gene expression tag
pool using Illumina deep sequencing technology and RNA-Seq analysis (accession
number SRX540102). Of the 46,980 non-redundant unigenes identified, 28,037
(59.7%) were matched to known genes in GenBank, 21,604 (46.0%) in Swiss-Prot,
19,482 (41.5%) in Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes and 13,193 (28.1%) in
Gene Ontology databases. Seventy-five percent of the unigene sequences had top
matches with gene sequences from Tribolium castaneum. Results indicated that 60
genes regulated the entire cold-acclimation response, and, of these, seven genes 
were always up-regulated and five genes always down-regulated. Further screening 
revealed that six cold-resistant genes, E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase,
transketolase, trehalase, serine/arginine repetitive matrix protein 2, glycerol
kinase and sugar transporter SWEET1-like, play key roles in the response.
Expression from a number of the differentially expressed genes was confirmed with
quantitative real-time PCR (HaCS_Trans). The paper attempted to identify
cold-resistance response genes, and study the potential mechanism by which cold
acclimation enhances the insect's cold endurance. Information on these
cold-resistance response genes will improve the development of low-temperature
storage technology of natural enemy insects for future use in biological control.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbd.2017.01.004 
PMID: 28237864 


40. Genome Res. 2017 Feb 24. doi: 10.1101/gr.215517.116. [Epub ahead of print]

One thousand somatic SNVs per skin fibroblast cell set baseline of mosaic
mutational load with patterns that suggest proliferative origin.

Abyzov A(1,)(2), Tomasini L(2,)(3), Zhou B(4), Vasmatzis N(1), Coppola G(2,)(3), 
Amenduni M(2,)(3), Pattni R(4), Wilson M(2,)(3), Gerstein M(2,)(5,)(6,)(7),
Weissman S(2,)(8), Urban AE(4), Vaccarino FM(2,)(3,)(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Health Sciences Research, Center for Individualized Medicine,
Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA. (2)Program in Neurodevelopment and 
Regeneration, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA. (3)Child Study 
Center, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA. (4)Department of
Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences and Department of Genetics, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305, USA. (5)Department of 
Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut
06520, USA. (6)Program in Computation Biology and Bioinformatics, Yale
University, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA. (7)Department of Computer Science,
Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA. (8)Department of Genetics,
Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA. (9)Department of
Neuroscience, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.

Few studies have been conducted to understand post-zygotic accumulation of
mutations in cells of the healthy human body. We reprogrammed 32 skin fibroblast 
cells from families of donors into human induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC)
lines. The clonal nature of hiPSC lines allows a high-resolution analysis of the 
genomes of the founder fibroblast cells without being confounded by the artifacts
of single-cell whole-genome amplification. We estimate that on average a
fibroblast cell in children has 1035 mostly benign mosaic SNVs. On average, 235
SNVs could be directly confirmed in the original fibroblast population by
ultradeep sequencing, down to an allele frequency (AF) of 0.1%. More sensitive
droplet digital PCR experiments confirmed more SNVs as mosaic with AF as low as
0.01%, suggesting that 1035 mosaic SNVs per fibroblast cell is the true average. 
Similar analyses in adults revealed no significant increase in the number of SNVs
per cell, suggesting that a major fraction of mosaic SNVs in fibroblasts arises
during development. Mosaic SNVs were distributed uniformly across the genome and 
were enriched in a mutational signature previously observed in cancers and in de 
novo variants and which, we hypothesize, is a hallmark of normal cell
proliferation. Finally, AF distribution of mosaic SNVs had distinct narrow peaks,
which could be a characteristic of clonal cell selection, clonal expansion, or
both. These findings reveal a large degree of somatic mosaicism in healthy human 
tissues, link de novo and cancer mutations to somatic mosaicism, and couple
somatic mosaicism with cell proliferation.

© 2017 Abyzov et al.; Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.

DOI: 10.1101/gr.215517.116 
PMID: 28235832 


41. Plant J. 2017 Feb 23. doi: 10.1111/tpj.13517. [Epub ahead of print]

Accurate measurement of transgene copy number in crop plants using droplet
digital PCR.

Collier R(1), Dasgupta K(2), Xing YP(1), Hernandez BT(2), Shao M(2), Rohozinski
D(3), Kovak E(3,)(4), Lin J(1), de Oliveira ML(5), Stover E(5), McCue KF(1),
Harmon FG(3,)(4), Blechl A(1), Thomson JG(1), Thilmony R(1).

Author information: 
(1)USDA-ARS, Western Regional Research Center, Crop Improvement and Genetics
Research Unit, 800 Buchanan Street, Albany, CA 94710, USA. (2)Department of Plant
Sciences, University of California, Davis, One Shields Avenue, Davis, CA 95616,
USA. (3)USDA-ARS, Plant Gene Expression Center, 800 Buchanan Street, Albany, CA
94710, USA. (4)Department of Plant & Microbial Biology, University of California,
Berkeley, CA 94720, USA. (5)USDA-ARS Subtropical Insects and Horticulture
Research Unit, Fort Pierce, FL 34945, USA.

Genetic transformation is a powerful means for the improvement of crop plants,
but requires labor and resource intensive methods. An efficient method for
identifying single copy transgene insertion events from a population of
independent transgenic lines is desirable. Currently transgene copy number is
estimated by either Southern blot hybridization analyses or quantitative
polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) experiments. Southern hybridization is a
convincing and reliable method, but it also is expensive, time-consuming and
often requires a large amount of genomic DNA and radioactively labeled probes.
Alternatively, qPCR requires less DNA and is potentially simpler to perform, but 
its results can lack the accuracy and precision needed to confidently distinguish
between one and two copy events in transgenic plants with large genomes. To
address this need, we developed a droplet digital PCR (dPCR)-based method for
transgene copy number measurement in an array of crops: rice, citrus, potato,
maize, tomato, and wheat. The method utilizes specific primers to amplify target 
transgenes, and endogenous reference genes in a single duplexed reaction
containing thousands of droplets. Endpoint amplicon production in the droplets is
detected and quantified using sequence-specific fluorescently labeled probes. The
results demonstrate that this approach can generate confident copy number
measurements in independent transgenic lines in these crop species. This method
and the compendium of probes and primers will be a useful resource for the plant 
research community, enabling the simple and accurate determination of transgene
copy number in these six important crop species. This article is protected by
copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/tpj.13517 
PMID: 28231382 


42. BMC Med. 2017 Feb 23;15(1):37. doi: 10.1186/s12916-017-0784-x.

Relationship between salivary/pancreatic amylase and body mass index: a systems
biology approach.

Bonnefond A(1), Yengo L(2,)(3), Dechaume A(2), Canouil M(2), Castelain M(2),
Roger E(2), Allegaert F(2), Caiazzo R(4,)(5), Raverdy V(4,)(5), Pigeyre M(4,)(5),
Arredouani A(6), Borys JM(7), Lévy-Marchal C(8), Weill J(9), Roussel
R(10,)(11,)(12), Balkau B(13), Marre M(10,)(11,)(12), Pattou F(4,)(5), Brousseau 
T(14), Froguel P(15,)(16).

Author information: 
(1)University of Lille, CNRS, Institut Pasteur de Lille, UMR 8199 - EGID, Lille, 
59000, France. amelie.bonnefond@inserm.fr. (2)University of Lille, CNRS, Institut
Pasteur de Lille, UMR 8199 - EGID, Lille, 59000, France. (3)Institute for
Molecular Bioscience, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, 4067, Australia.
(4)University of Lille, Inserm, U1190 - EGID, Lille, 59000, France. (5)Endocrine 
Surgery Department, CHU of Lille, Lille, 59000, France. (6)Qatar Biomedical
Research Institute, Qatar Foundation, Doha, 5825, Qatar. (7)Fleurbaix-Laventie
Association, Laventie, 62840, France. (8)Inserm CIE 05 - Department of Clinical
Epidemiology, Robert Debré Hospital, Paris, 75019, France. (9)Pediatric Endocrine
Department, CHU of Lille, Lille, 59000, France. (10)Inserm, U1138, Centre de
Recherche des Cordeliers, Paris, 75006, France. (11)Paris-Diderot University,
Sorbonne Paris-Cité, Paris, 75013, France. (12)Department of
Endocrinology-Diabetology and Nutrition, DHU-FIRE, Bichat Hospital, Assistance
Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Paris, 75018, France. (13)Inserm, U1018, CESP, Team 5
(EpReC, Renal and cardiovascular Epidemiology), UVSQ-UPS, Villejuif, 94807,
France. (14)UF8832 - Biochimie Automatisée, Pôle de Biologie Pathologie
Génétique, CHU of Lille, Lille, 59000, France. (15)University of Lille, CNRS,
Institut Pasteur de Lille, UMR 8199 - EGID, Lille, 59000, France.
froguel@good.ibl.fr. (16)Department of Genomics of Common Disease, School of
Public Health, Imperial College London, Hammersmith Hospital, London, W12 0NN,
UK. froguel@good.ibl.fr.

BACKGROUND: Salivary (AMY1) and pancreatic (AMY2) amylases hydrolyze starch. Copy
number of AMY1A (encoding AMY1) was reported to be higher in populations with a
high-starch diet and reduced in obese people. These results based on quantitative
PCR have been challenged recently. We aimed to re-assess the relationship between
amylase and adiposity using a systems biology approach.
METHODS: We assessed the association between plasma enzymatic activity of AMY1 or
AMY2, and several metabolic traits in almost 4000 French individuals from
D.E.S.I.R. longitudinal study. The effect of the number of copies of AMY1A
(encoding AMY1) or AMY2A (encoding AMY2) measured through droplet digital PCR was
then analyzed on the same parameters in the same study. A Mendelian randomization
analysis was also performed. We subsequently assessed the association between
AMY1A copy number and obesity risk in two case-control studies (5000 samples in
total). Finally, we assessed the association between body mass index
(BMI)-related plasma metabolites and AMY1 or AMY2 activity.
RESULTS: We evidenced strong associations between AMY1 or AMY2 activity and lower
BMI. However, we found a modest contribution of AMY1A copy number to lower BMI.
Mendelian randomization identified a causal negative effect of BMI on AMY1 and
AMY2 activities. Yet, we also found a significant negative contribution of AMY1
activity at baseline to the change in BMI during the 9-year follow-up, and a
significant contribution of AMY1A copy number to lower obesity risk in children, 
suggesting a bidirectional relationship between AMY1 activity and adiposity.
Metabonomics identified a BMI-independent association between AMY1 activity and
lactate, a product of complex carbohydrate fermentation.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings provide new insights into the involvement of amylase 
in adiposity and starch metabolism.

DOI: 10.1186/s12916-017-0784-x 
PMCID: PMC5322607
PMID: 28228143 


43. PLoS Comput Biol. 2017 Feb 21;13(2):e1005404. doi: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1005404. 
eCollection 2017.

Metacoder: An R package for visualization and manipulation of community taxonomic
diversity data.

Foster ZS(1), Sharpton TJ(2,)(3,)(4), Grünwald NJ(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany and Plant Pathology, Oregon State University, Corvallis, 
Oregon, United States of America. (2)Department of Microbiology, Oregon State
University, Corvallis, Oregon, United States of America. (3)Department of
Statistics, Oregon State University, Corvallis, Oregon, United States of America.
(4)Center for Genome Research and Biocomputing, Oregon State University,
Corvallis, Oregon, United States of America. (5)Horticultural Crops Research
Laboratory, USDA-ARS, Corvallis, Oregon, United States of America.

Community-level data, the type generated by an increasing number of metabarcoding
studies, is often graphed as stacked bar charts or pie graphs that use color to
represent taxa. These graph types do not convey the hierarchical structure of
taxonomic classifications and are limited by the use of color for categories. As 
an alternative, we developed metacoder, an R package for easily parsing,
manipulating, and graphing publication-ready plots of hierarchical data.
Metacoder includes a dynamic and flexible function that can parse most text-based
formats that contain taxonomic classifications, taxon names, taxon identifiers,
or sequence identifiers. Metacoder can then subset, sample, and order this parsed
data using a set of intuitive functions that take into account the hierarchical
nature of the data. Finally, an extremely flexible plotting function enables
quantitative representation of up to 4 arbitrary statistics simultaneously in a
tree format by mapping statistics to the color and size of tree nodes and edges. 
Metacoder also allows exploration of barcode primer bias by integrating functions
to run digital PCR. Although it has been designed for data from metabarcoding
research, metacoder can easily be applied to any data that has a hierarchical
component such as gene ontology or geographic location data. Our package
complements currently available tools for community analysis and is provided open
source with an extensive online user manual.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1005404 
PMID: 28222096 


44. Methods. 2017 Feb 20. pii: S1046-2023(16)30364-4. doi:
10.1016/j.ymeth.2017.02.003. [Epub ahead of print]

Metabolic labeling and recovery of nascent RNA to accurately quantify mRNA
stability.

Russo J(1), Heck AM(2), Wilusz J(3), Wilusz CJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Immunology and Pathology, Colorado State
University, Fort Collins, CO 80525, United States. (2)Program in Cell & Molecular
Biology, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO 80525, United States.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Immunology and Pathology, Colorado State
University, Fort Collins, CO 80525, United States; Program in Cell & Molecular
Biology, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO 80525, United States.
Electronic address: jeffrey.wilusz@colostate.edu. (4)Department of Microbiology, 
Immunology and Pathology, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO 80525,
United States; Program in Cell & Molecular Biology, Colorado State University,
Fort Collins, CO 80525, United States.

Changes in the rate of mRNA decay are closely coordinated with transcriptional
changes and together these events have profound effects on gene expression during
development and disease. Traditional approaches to assess mRNA decay have relied 
on inhibition of transcription, which can alter mRNA decay rates and confound
interpretation. More recently, metabolic labeling combined with chemical
modification and fractionation of labeled RNAs has allowed the isolation of
nascent transcripts and the subsequent calculation of mRNA decay rates. This
approach has been widely adopted for measuring mRNA half-lives on a global scale,
but has proven challenging to use for analysis of single genes. We present a
series of normalization and quality assurance steps to be used in combination
with 4-thiouridine pulse labeling of cultured eukaryotic cells. Importantly, we
demonstrate how the relative amount of 4sU-labeled nascent RNA influences
accurate quantification. The approach described facilitates reproducible
measurement of individual mRNA half-lives using 4-thiouridine and could be
adapted for use with other nucleoside analogs.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymeth.2017.02.003 
PMID: 28219744 


45. Biofactors. 2017 Feb 20. doi: 10.1002/biof.1352. [Epub ahead of print]

Differentially expressed haptoglobin as a potential biomarker for type 2 diabetic
mellitus in Hispanic population.

Liu Z(1), Feng D(2), Gu D(3), Zheng R(4), Esperat C(5), Gao W(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Toxicology, The Institute of Environmental and
Human Health, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX. (2)School of Nursing,
University of Nevada, Las Vegas, NV. (3)Huafang College, Xuzhou Medical
University, Xuzhou, China. (4)Department of Biology, Texas Tech University,
Lubbock, TX. (5)School of Nursing, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, 
Lubbock, TX.

Glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) measurement is currently a primary tool for
diagnosis of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), especially for the assessment of
chronic hyperglycemia. However, many studies reported the limitation of using
HbA1c for T2DM diagnosis/prognosis, such as poor sensitivities, difficult
standardization, and variable cut points across ethnic groups. Therefore, the aim
of this study was to discover novel biomarkers associated with elevated HbA1c
levels as complementary T2DM diagnostic tools. Two-dimensional difference gel
electrophoresis combined with mass spectrometry were applied for protein profile 
analyses of two pooled serum samples collected from Hispanic T2DM subjects
(n = 74) with HbA1c ≥7 and HbA1c< 7, respectively. Isoforms of haptoglobin (Hp)
α1/α2 chains were significantly altered in pooled serum samples from T2DM
subjects with HbA1c ≥7 compared to those with HbA1c< 7. Hp genotypes of 262
Hispanic subjects, including 109 T2DM and 153 nondiabetic controls, were further 
determined by PCRs and western blotting analysis. Meanwhile, a new droplet
digital PCR method for Hp genotyping was also established. The distribution of
Hp2 allele was higher in T2DM subjects compared to nondiabetic controls and the
HbA1c levels of T2DM subjects carrying at least one Hp2 allele tended to be
higher than T2DM subjects with Hp 1-1. In summary, our results indicate that
differentially expressed serum Hp protein isoforms could be associated with HbA1c
levels and subjects with Hp2 allele have a higher risk for the occurrence of T2DM
in Hispanic population. © 2017 BioFactors, 2017.

© 2017 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.

DOI: 10.1002/biof.1352 
PMID: 28218436 


46. Gene. 2017 May 5;611:21-26. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2017.02.022. Epub 2017 Feb 17.

Differentially expressed genes in the silk gland of silkworm (Bombyx mori)
treated with TiO2 NPs.

Xue B(1), Li F(1), Hu J(1), Tian J(1), Li J(1), Cheng X(1), Hu J(1), Li B(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Basic Medicine and Biological Sciences, Soochow University, Suzhou, 
Jiangsu 215123, PR China. (2)School of Basic Medicine and Biological Sciences,
Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu 215123, PR China; National Engineering
Laboratory for Modern Silk, Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu 215123, PR China.
Electronic address: lib@suda.edu.cn.

Silk gland is a silkworm organ where silk proteins are synthesized and secreted. 
Dietary supplement of TiO2 nanoparticles (NPs) promotes silk protein synthesis in
silkworms. In this study, digital gene expression (DGE) tag was used to analyze
the gene expression profile of the posterior silk gland of silkworms that were
fed with TiO2 NPs. In total, 5,702,823 and 6,150,719 clean tags, 55,096 and
74,715 distinct tags were detected in TiO2 NPs treated and control groups,
respectively. Compared with the control, TiO2 NPs treated silkworms showed 306
differentially expressed genes, including 137 upregulated genes and 169
downregulated genes. Of these differentially expressed genes, 106 genes were
related to silk protein synthesis, among which 97 genes were upregulated and 9
genes were downregulated. Pathway mapping using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes
and Genomes (KEGG) showed that 20 pathways were significantly enriched in TiO2
NPs treated silkworms, and the metabolic pathway-related genes were the most
significantly enriched. The DGE results were verified by qRT-PCR analysis of
eight differentially expressed genes. The DGE and qRT-PCR results were consistent
for all three upregulated genes and three of the five downregulated genes, but
the expression trends of the remaining two genes were different between qRT-PCR
and DGE analysis. This study enhances our understanding of the mechanism of TiO2 
NPs promoted silk protein synthesis.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2017.02.022 
PMID: 28216040 


47. Acta Trop. 2017 May;169:187-201. doi: 10.1016/j.actatropica.2017.02.014. Epub
2017 Feb 15.

Detection and quantification of soil-transmitted helminths in environmental
samples: A review of current state-of-the-art and future perspectives.

Amoah ID(1), Singh G(2), Stenström TA(2), Reddy P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Water and Wastewater Technology (IWWT), Durban University of
Technology, PO Box 1334, Durban, 4000, South Africa; Department of Community
Health Studies, Faculty of Health Sciences Durban University of Technology, PO
Box 1334, Durban, 4000, South Africa. Electronic address: amoahkid@gmail.com.
(2)Institute for Water and Wastewater Technology (IWWT), Durban University of
Technology, PO Box 1334, Durban, 4000, South Africa. (3)Department of Community
Health Studies, Faculty of Health Sciences Durban University of Technology, PO
Box 1334, Durban, 4000, South Africa.

It is estimated that over a billion people are infected with soil-transmitted
helminths (STHs) globally with majority occurring in tropical and subtropical
regions of the world. The roundworm (Ascaris lumbricoides), whipworm (Trichuris
trichiura), and hookworms (Ancylostoma duodenale and Necator americanus) are the 
main species infecting people. These infections are mostly gained through
exposure to faecally contaminated water, soil or contaminated food and with an
increase in the risk of infections due to wastewater and sludge reuse in
agriculture. Different methods have been developed for the detection and
quantification of STHs eggs in environmental samples. However, there is a lack of
a universally accepted technique which creates a challenge for comparative
assessments of helminths egg concentrations both in different samples matrices as
well as between locations. This review presents a comparison of reported
methodologies for the detection of STHs eggs, an assessment of the relative
performance of available detection methods and a discussion of new emerging
techniques that could be applied for detection and quantification. It is based on
a literature search using PubMed and Science Direct considering all geographical 
locations. Original research articles were selected based on their methodology
and results sections. Methods reported in these articles were grouped into
conventional, molecular and emerging techniques, the main steps in each method
were then compared and discussed. The inclusion of a dissociation step aimed at
detaching helminth eggs from particulate matter was found to improve the recovery
of eggs. Additionally the selection and application of flotation solutions that
take into account the relative densities of the eggs of different species of STHs
also results in higher egg recovery. Generally the use of conventional methods
was shown to be laborious and time consuming and prone to human error. The
alternate use of nucleic acid-based techniques has improved the sensitivity of
detection and made species specific identification possible. However, these
nucleic acid based methods are expensive and less suitable in regions with
limited resources and skill. The loop mediated isothermal amplification method
shows promise for application in these settings due to its simplicity and use of 
basic equipment. In addition, the development of imaging soft-ware for the
detection and quantification of STHs shows promise to further reduce human error 
associated with the analysis of environmental samples. It may be concluded that
there is a need to comparatively assess the performance of different methods to
determine their applicability in different settings as well as for use with
different sample matrices (wastewater, sludge, compost, soil, vegetables etc.).

Copyright © 2017 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.actatropica.2017.02.014 
PMID: 28214519 


48. Comput Biol Chem. 2017 Feb 1;68:1-5. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiolchem.2017.01.015.
[Epub ahead of print]

Simultaneous estimation of detection sensitivity and absolute copy number from
digital PCR serial dilution.

Deng X(1), Custer BS(2), Busch MP(3), Bakkour S(4), Lee TH(5).

Author information: 
(1)Blood Systems Research Institute, San Francisco, CA 94118, USA; Department of 
Laboratory Medicine, University of California at San Francisco, San Francisco, CA
94107, USA. Electronic address: xdeng@bloodsystems.org. (2)Blood Systems Research
Institute, San Francisco, CA 94118, USA; Department of Laboratory Medicine,
University of California at San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94107, USA.
Electronic address: bcuster@bloodsystems.org. (3)Blood Systems Research
Institute, San Francisco, CA 94118, USA; Department of Laboratory Medicine,
University of California at San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94107, USA.
Electronic address: mbusch@bloodsystems.org. (4)Blood Systems Research Institute,
San Francisco, CA 94118, USA; Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of
California at San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94107, USA. Electronic address:
sbakkour@bloodsystems.org. (5)Blood Systems Research Institute, San Francisco, CA
94118, USA; Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of California at San
Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94107, USA. Electronic address:
tlee@bloodsystems.org.

Digital polymerase chain reaction (dPCR) is a refinement of the conventional PCR 
approach to nucleic acid detection and absolute quantification. Digital PCR works
by partitioning a sample of DNA or cDNA into many individual, parallel PCR
reactions. Current quantification methods rely on the assumption that the PCR
reactions are always able to detect single target molecules. When the assumption 
does not hold, the copy numbers will be severely underestimated. We developed a
novel dPCR quantification method which determines whether the single copy
assumption is violated or not by simultaneously estimating the assay sensitivity 
and the copy numbers using serial dilution data sets. The implemented method is
available as an R package "digitalPCR".

Copyright Â© 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiolchem.2017.01.015 
PMID: 28213308 


49. Adv Clin Chem. 2017;79:43-91. doi: 10.1016/bs.acc.2016.10.001. Epub 2016 Dec 27.

Droplet-Based Digital PCR: Application in Cancer Research.

Perkins G(1), Lu H(2), Garlan F(2), Taly V(3).

Author information: 
(1)Université Sorbonne Paris Cité, INSERM UMR-S1147, CNRS SNC 5014, Centre
Universitaire des Saints-Pères, Equipe labélisée LIGUE Contre le Cancer, Paris,
France; European Georges Pompidou Hospital, AP-HP - Paris Descartes University,
Paris, France. (2)Université Sorbonne Paris Cité, INSERM UMR-S1147, CNRS SNC
5014, Centre Universitaire des Saints-Pères, Equipe labélisée LIGUE Contre le
Cancer, Paris, France. (3)Université Sorbonne Paris Cité, INSERM UMR-S1147, CNRS 
SNC 5014, Centre Universitaire des Saints-Pères, Equipe labélisée LIGUE Contre le
Cancer, Paris, France. Electronic address: valerie.taly@parisdescartes.fr.

The efficient characterization of genetic and epigenetic alterations in oncology,
virology, or prenatal diagnostics requires highly sensitive and specific
high-throughput approaches. Nevertheless, with the use of conventional methods,
sensitivity and specificity were largely limited. By partitioning individual
target molecules within distinct compartments, digital PCR (dPCR) could overcome 
these limitations and detect very rare sequences with unprecedented precision and
sensitivity. In dPCR, the sample is diluted such that each individual partition
will contain no more than one target sequence. Following the assay reaction, the 
dPCR process provides an absolute value and analyzable quantitative data. The
recent coupling of dPCR with microfluidic systems in commercial platforms should 
lead to an essential tool for the management of patients with cancer, especially 
adapted to the analysis of precious samples. Applications in cancer research
range from the analysis of tumor heterogeneity to that of a range of body fluids.
Droplet-based dPCR is indeed particularly appropriate for the emerging field of
liquid biopsy analysis. In this review, following an overview of the development 
in dPCR technology and different strategies based on the use of
microcompartments, we will focus particularly on the applications and latest
development of microfluidic droplet-based dPCR in oncology.

© 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.acc.2016.10.001 
PMID: 28212714 


50. Tissue Cell. 2017 Jan 30. pii: S0040-8166(16)30255-5. doi:
10.1016/j.tice.2017.01.007. [Epub ahead of print]

Correlation of micro vessel density and c-Myc expression in breast tumor of mice 
following mesenchymal stem cell therapy.

Adelipour M(1), Babaei F(1), Mirzababaei M(1), Allameh A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Tarbiat
Modares University, Tehran, Iran. (2)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Faculty
of Medical Sciences, Tarbiat Modares University, Tehran, Iran. Electronic
address: allameha@modares.ac.ir.

Stem cell therapy for degenerative diseases has been established; however there
are controversies over the treatment of solid tumors with stem cell
transplantation. In the present study, the anti-tumor action of mesenchymal stem 
cells (MSCs) has been examined in a mouse model of breast cancer with emphasize
on tumor growth, angiogenesis and c-Myc expression in breast tumors. For this
purpose, MSCs were isolated from bone marrow of Balb/c mice and characterized. A 
Balb/c mouse model of breast cancer was developed and subjected to cell therapy
intra venous (I.V) or intra tumor (I.T) with MSCs. Tumor growth was measured
using a digital caliber for until the end of experiment (30days). Then the mice
were sacrificed and their tumors were removed and processed for histopathological
examination, immunohistochemical assay of CD31 and measuring of c-Myc expression 
using quantitative PCR. Detection of the labeled-MSCs in tumors following
injection of the cells (I.V or I.T) clearly showed the homing of MSCs into
tumors. Tumor growth in case of MSC-treated mice by I.V and I.T routes was
inhibited by approximately 28% and 34% respectively compared to controls. The
suppression of angiogenesis was reflected in Micro Vessel Density (MVD) following
I.V or I.T delivery of the MSCs. c-Myc gene expression in tumor tissues of mice
treated I.V or IT with MSCs was down-regulated to 28.0% and 16.0% respectively
compare to control groups. In conclusion, growth inhibition of breast tumors in
mice due to MSC therapy is associated with modulation of c-Myc activation and
angiogenesis markers.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tice.2017.01.007 
PMID: 28209368 


51. Int J Cancer. 2017 May 15;140(10):2344-2350. doi: 10.1002/ijc.30650. Epub 2017
Mar 9.

Analysis of ctDNA to predict prognosis and monitor treatment responses in
metastatic pancreatic cancer patients.

Cheng H(1,)(2,)(3), Liu C(1,)(2,)(3), Jiang J(1,)(2,)(3), Luo G(1,)(2,)(3), Lu
Y(1,)(2,)(3), Jin K(1,)(2,)(3), Guo M(1,)(2,)(3), Zhang Z(4), Xu J(1,)(2,)(3),
Liu L(1,)(2,)(3), Ni Q(1,)(2,)(3), Yu X(1,)(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pancreatic Surgery, Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center, No.
270 DongAn Road, Shanghai, 200032, People's Republic of China. (2)Department of
Oncology, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, No. 270 DongAn Road,
Shanghai, 200032, People's Republic of China. (3)Pancreatic Cancer Institute,
Fudan University, No. 270 DongAn Road, Shanghai, 200032, People's Republic of
China. (4)Zhangjiang Center for Translational Medicine, Shanghai, 200120,
People's Republic of China.

Cell-free circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) in plasma has been used as a potential
noninvasive biomarker for various tumors. Our study was performed to evaluate the
clinical implications of ctDNA detection in patients with metastatic pancreatic
cancer. First, we attempted to prospectively screen a panel of 60 genes in
cell-free DNA (cfDNA) from ten metastatic pancreatic cancer patients via exome
sequencing. Second, droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) was used to identify potential
mutations in a cohort of 188 patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer. Finally,
to preliminary evaluate the potential role of ctDNA in monitoring tumor responses
following chemotherapy, we detected the presence of ctDNA in serial plasma
samples from 13 metastatic pancreatic cancer patients (Clinical trial:
NCT02017015). The analysis revealed five somatic mutations at BRCA2, EGFR, KDR
and ERBB2 gene loci. The frequencies of ctDNA mutation at BRCA2, KDR, EGFR, ERBB2
exon17 and ERBB2 exon27 were 11.7%, 13.8%, 13.3%, 13.3% and 6.4% respectively.
Univariate and multivariate analyses identified the ERBB2 exon17 mutation
(p = 0.035, HR = 1.61) as an independent factor associated with overall survival 
among metastatic pancreatic cancer patients. Furthermore, the rate of coincident 
detection of ctDNA and response to treatment as assessed by CT imaging was 76.9% 
(10 of 13 cases), and the presence of ctDNA provided the earliest measure of
treatment in 6 of 10 patients (60%). ctDNA sequencing may have clinical value for
determining metastatic pancreatic cancer treatment and monitoring the tumor
response.

© 2017 UICC.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.30650 
PMID: 28205231 


52. Beijing Da Xue Xue Bao. 2017 Feb 18;49(1):16-24.

[Comparative study of proliferative and periodontal differentiation propensity of
induced pluripotent stem cells at different passages].

[Article in Chinese]

Li JW(1), Yin XH(1), Luan QX(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Periodontology, Peking University School and Hospital of
Stomatology & National Engineering Laboratory for Digital and Material Technology
of Stomatology & Beijing Key Laboratory of Digital Stomatology, Beijing 100081,
China.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the proliferative and periodontal specific differentiation 
abilities of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) at different passages, and to
investigate whether long term culturing would have a negative influence on their 
proliferation and specific differentiation capacity, thus providing a theoretical
basis for further in-depth research on periodontal regeneration and the possible 
clinical applications of iPSCs.
METHODS: IPSCs derived from human gingival fibroblasts at passages 5, 10, 15 and 
20 were recovered and cultured in vitro. Their morphology and proliferation rates
were observed respectively. We further induced the iPSCs at different passages
toward periodontal tissue under the treatment of growth/differentiation factor-5 
(GDF-5) for 14 days through the EB routine, then compared the periodontal
differentiation propensities between the different passages of iPSCs by detecting
their calcified nodules formation by Alizarin red staining and assaying their
relative periodontal tissue related marker expressions by qRT-PCR and
immunofluorescence staining, including bone related markers: osteocalcin (OCN),
bone sialoprotein (BSP); periodontal ligament related markers: periostin,
vimentin; and cementum related markers: cementum attachment protein (CAP),
cementum protein 1 (CEMP1). The untreated spontaneous differentiation groups were
set as negative controls respectively.
RESULTS: iPSCs at different passages all showed a high proliferative capacity
when cultured in vitro and turned into a spindle-like shape similar to
fibroblasts upon periodontal specific differentiation. All iPSCs formed typical
calcified nodules upon GDF-5 induction by Alizarin red staining in comparison to 
their untreated controls. The relative calcium deposition at all passages had
been significantly upgraded under the treatment of GDF-5 (P5: t=2.125, P=0.003;
P10: t=2.246, P=0.021; P15: t=3.754, P=0.004; P20: t=3.933, P=0.002), but no
significant difference in their calcium deposition were detected within passages 
5, 10, 15 and 20 (periodontal differentiation: F=2.365, P=0.109; spontaneously
differentiation: F=2.901, P=0.067). Periodontal tissue related marker expressions
of iPSCs at all passages had also been significantly upgraded under the treatment
of GDF-5 (P<0.05), but still, no significant difference in their expression
levels of periodontal tissue related proteins were detected within passages (BSP:
F=0.926 7, P=0.450; vimentin: F=0.917 1, P=0.455; CEMP1: F=2.129, P=0.1367).
CONCLUSION: Our results preliminarily confirmed that long term culturing won't
influence the proliferation capacity and periodontal specific differentiation
propensity of iPSCs, as they can still proliferate and differentiate toward
periodontal cells with high efficiency upon growth factor induction after
continuous passaging. Therefore, iPSCs could be recognized as a promising cell
source for future possible application in periodontal tissue regeneration.


PMID: 28202998 


53. Food Environ Virol. 2017 Feb 14. doi: 10.1007/s12560-017-9281-9. [Epub ahead of
print]

Prevalence and Molecular Characterization of the Hepatitis E Virus in Retail Pork
Products Marketed in Canada.

Mykytczuk O(1), Harlow J(1), Bidawid S(1), Corneau N(1), Nasheri N(2).

Author information: 
(1)National Food Virology Reference Centre, Bureau of Microbial Hazards, Food
Directorate, Health Canada, 251 Sir Frederick Banting Driveway, Ottawa, ON, K1A
0K9, Canada. (2)National Food Virology Reference Centre, Bureau of Microbial
Hazards, Food Directorate, Health Canada, 251 Sir Frederick Banting Driveway,
Ottawa, ON, K1A 0K9, Canada. neda.nasheri@hc-sc.gc.ca.

Infection with the hepatitis E virus (HEV) is very common worldwide. HEV causes
acute viral hepatitis with approximately 20 million cases per year. While HEV
genotypes 1 and 2 cause large waterborne and foodborne outbreaks with a
significant mortality in developing countries, genotypes 3 and 4 are more
prevalent in developed countries with transmission being mostly zoonotic. In
North America and Europe, HEV has been increasingly detected in swine, and
exposure to pigs and pork products is considered to be the primary source of
infection. Therefore we set out to investigate the prevalence of HEV in retail
pork products available in Canada, by screening meal-size portions of pork pâtés,
raw pork sausages, and raw pork livers. The presence of the HEV genomes was
determined by RT-PCR and viral RNA was quantified by digital droplet PCR.
Overall, HEV was detected in 47% of the sampled pork pâtés and 10.5% of the
sampled raw pork livers, but not in the sampled pork sausages, and sequencing
confirmed that all HEV strains belonged to genotype 3. Further phylogenetic
analysis revealed that except for one isolate that clusters with subtype 3d, all 
isolates belong to subtype 3a. Amino acid variations between the isolates were
also observed in the sequenced capsid region. In conclusion, the prevalence of
HEV in pâtés and raw pork livers observed in this study is in agreement with the 
current HEV distribution in pork products reported in other developed countries.

DOI: 10.1007/s12560-017-9281-9 
PMID: 28197972 


54. J Hematol Oncol. 2017 Feb 14;10(1):47. doi: 10.1186/s13045-017-0412-4.

XPO1 in B cell hematological malignancies: from recurrent somatic mutations to
targeted therapy.

Camus V(1,)(2), Miloudi H(1), Taly A(3), Sola B(4), Jardin F(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Normandie Univ, INSERM U1245, UNICAEN, UNIROUEN, Caen, France. (2)Department
of Hematology, Centre Henri Becquerel, Rouen, France. (3)Laboratoire de Biochimie
Théorique, Institut de Biologie Physico-Chimique, CNRS, Université Paris Diderot,
Paris, France. (4)Normandie Univ, INSERM U1245, UNICAEN, UNIROUEN, Caen, France. 
brigitte.sola@unicaen.fr.

Many recent publications highlight the large role of the pivotal eukaryotic
nuclear export protein exportin-1 (XPO1) in the oncogenesis of several
malignancies, and there is emerging evidence that XPO1 inhibition is a key target
against cancer. The clinical validation of the pharmacological inhibition of XPO1
was recently achieved with the development of the selective inhibitor of nuclear 
export compounds, displaying an interesting anti-tumor activity in patients with 
massive pre-treated hematological malignancies. Recent reports have shown
molecular alterations in the gene encoding XPO1 and showed a mutation hotspot
(E571K) in the following two hematological malignancies with similar phenotypes
and natural histories: primary mediastinal diffuse large B cell lymphoma and
classical Hodgkin's lymphoma. Emerging evidence suggests that the mutant XPO1
E571K plays a role in carcinogenesis, and this variant is quantifiable in tumor
and plasma cell-free DNA of patients using highly sensitive molecular biology
techniques, such as digital PCR and next-generation sequencing. Therefore, it was
proposed that the XPO1 E571K variant may serve as a minimal residual disease tool
in this setting. To clarify and summarize the recent findings on the role of XPO1
in B cell hematological malignancies, we conducted a literature search to present
the major publications establishing the landscape of XPO1 molecular alterations, 
their impact on the XPO1 protein, their interest as biomarkers, and
investigations into the development of new XPO1-targeted therapies in B cell
hematological malignancies.

DOI: 10.1186/s13045-017-0412-4 
PMCID: PMC5307790
PMID: 28196522 


55. BMC Cancer. 2017 Feb 13;17(1):124. doi: 10.1186/s12885-017-3111-1.

Comparison of immunohistochemistry with PCR for assessment of ER, PR, and Ki-67
and prediction of pathological complete response in breast cancer.

Sinn HP(1), Schneeweiss A(2), Keller M(3), Schlombs K(4), Laible M(4), Seitz
J(2), Lakis S(5), Veltrup E(5), Altevogt P(6), Eidt S(7), Wirtz RM(5,)(7), Marmé 
F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pathology, University of Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer Feld 220-221,
69120, Heidelberg, Germany. peter.sinn@med.uni-heidelberg.de. (2)National Center 
for Tumor Diseases, University-Hospital Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer Feld 460,
69120, Heidelberg, Germany. (3)Institute of Pathology, University of Heidelberg, 
Im Neuenheimer Feld 220-221, 69120, Heidelberg, Germany. (4)BioNTech Diagnostics 
GmbH, 55131, Mainz, Germany. (5)STRATIFYER Molecular Pathology GmbH,
Werthmannstr. 1c, 50935, Köln, Germany. (6)German Cancer Research Center, Im
Neuenheimer Feld 280, 69120, Heidelberg, Germany. (7)Department of Pathology, St.
Elisabeth-Krankenhaus, Werthmannstr. 1c, 50935, Köln, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Proliferation may predict response to neoadjuvant therapy of breast
cancer and is commonly assessed by manual scoring of slides stained by
immunohistochemistry (IHC) for Ki-67 similar to ER and PgR. This method carries
significant intra- and inter-observer variability. Automatic scoring of Ki-67
with digital image analysis (qIHC) or assessment of MKI67 gene expression with
RT-qPCR may improve diagnostic accuracy.
METHODS: Ki-67 IHC visual assessment was compared to the IHC nuclear tool
(AperioTM) on core biopsies from a randomized neoadjuvant clinical trial.
Expression of ESR1, PGR and MKI67 by RT-qPCR was performed on RNA extracted from 
the same formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue. Concordance between the three
methods (vIHC, qIHC and RT-qPCR) was assessed for all 3 markers. The potential of
Ki-67 IHC and RT-qPCR to predict pathological complete response (pCR) was
evaluated using ROC analysis and non-parametric Mann-Whitney Test.
RESULTS: Correlation between methods (qIHC versus RT-qPCR) was high for ER and
PgR (spearman´s r = 0.82, p < 0.0001 and r = 0.86, p < 0.0001, respectively)
resulting in high levels of concordance using predefined cut-offs. When comparing
qIHC of ER and PgR with RT-qPCR of ESR1 and PGR the overall agreement was 96.6
and 91.4%, respectively, while overall agreement of visual IHC with RT-qPCR was
slightly lower for ER/ESR1 and PR/PGR (91.2 and 92.9%, respectively). In
contrast, only a moderate correlation was observed between qIHC and RT-qPCR
continuous data for Ki-67/MKI67 (Spearman's r = 0.50, p = 0.0001). Up to now no
predictive cut-off for Ki-67 assessment by IHC has been established to predict
response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Setting the desired sensitivity at 100%,
specificity for the prediction of pCR (ypT0ypN0) was significantly higher for
mRNA than for protein (68.9% vs. 22.2%). Moreover, the proliferation levels in
patients achieving a pCR versus not differed significantly using MKI67 RNA
expression (Mann-Whitney p = 0.002), but not with qIHC of Ki-67 (Mann-Whitney
p = 0.097) or vIHC of Ki-67 (p = 0.131).
CONCLUSION: Digital image analysis can successfully be implemented for assessing 
ER, PR and Ki-67. IHC for ER and PR reveals high concordance with RT-qPCR.
However, RT-qPCR displays a broader dynamic range and higher sensitivity than
IHC. Moreover, correlation between Ki-67 qIHC and RT-qPCR is only moderate and
RT-qPCR with MammaTyper® outperforms qIHC in predicting pCR. Both methods yield
improvements to error-prone manual scoring of Ki-67. However, RT-qPCR was
significantly more specific.

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-017-3111-1 
PMCID: PMC5307758
PMID: 28193205 


56. Biotechniques. 2017 Feb 1;62(2):62-68. doi: 10.2144/000114515.

TaqMan probes as blocking agents for enriched PCR amplification and DNA melting
analysis of mutant genes.

Botezatu IV(1), Panchuk IO(1), Stroganova AM(1), Senderovich AI(1), Kondratova
VN(1), Shelepov VP(1), Lichtenstein AV(1).

Author information: 
(1)N.N. Blokhin Cancer Research Center, Moscow, Russia.

Asymmetric PCR and DNA melting analysis with TaqMan probes applied for mutation
detection is effectively used in clinical diagnostics. The method is simple,
cost-effective, and carried out in a closed-tube format, minimizing time, labor, 
and risk of sample cross-contamination. Although DNA melting analysis is more
sensitive than Sanger sequencing (mutation detection thresholds are ~5% and
15%-20%, respectively), it is less sensitive than more labor-intensive and
expensive techniques such as pyrosequencing and droplet digital PCR. Here, we
demonstrate that, under specially selected conditions of asymmetric PCR, TaqMan
probes can play the role of blocking agents. Preferential blocking of the
wild-type allele brings about enriched amplification of mutant alleles. As a
result, an ~10-fold increase in the detection sensitivity for mutant BRAF and
NRAS genes was achieved.

DOI: 10.2144/000114515 
PMID: 28193149 


57. Exp Dermatol. 2017 Feb 13. doi: 10.1111/exd.13321. [Epub ahead of print]

Mutational profiling of acral melanomas in Korean populations.

Shim JH(1), Shin HT(2), Park J(3), Park JH(1), Lee JH(1,)(4), Yang JM(1), Kim
DH(5), Jang KT(6), Lee DY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (2)Samsung Genome Institute, Samsung Medical
Center, Seoul, Korea. (3)Department of Health Sciences and Technology, Samsung
Advanced Institute for Health Sciences and Technology, Sungkyunkwan University,
Seoul, Korea. (4)Department of Medical Device Management & Research, Samsung
Advanced Institute for Health Sciences and Technology, Sungkyunkwan University,
Seoul, Korea. (5)Department of Molecular Cell Biology, Samsung Biomedical
Research Institute, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Suwon, Korea.
(6)Department of Pathology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

The proportion of acral melanoma (AM) is much higher in Asian populations than in
Caucasians populations. Although mutational profiles associated with AM have been
discovered in Caucasian populations, knowledge of its genetic alterations in the 
Asian populations is limited. To describe the molecular nature of AM in Korean
patients, we performed mutational profilinge of AM and matched normal tissues of 
in patients. Fifty-one formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded AM samples and 32 matched
pairs of from patients' saliva DNA were analyzed by next-generation sequencing.
Only mutations confirmed via digital droplet PCR or in BRAF, KIT and NRAS, the
most frequently altered cancer genes in cutaneous melanoma, were considered as
positive. The rRelationship between mutational status and clinicopathological
features were examined. Of the 47 AM patients screened, alteration of BRAF, NRAS,
and KIT genes was observed in 6.4%, 4.3%, and 8.5%, respectively. We also tested 
matched normal tissues of patients to identify tumor-specific mutations.
Examination of the mutational profile in a cohort of 28 primary melanomas and
matched normal controls found BRAF mutations in 2 cases (7.1%), KIT mutations in 
3 cases (10.7%), and CTNNB1 mutations in 1 case (3.6%). The BRAF, NRAS, and KIT
mutation status did not correlate with its clinicopathological characteristics.
Our results show that KIT, NRAS, and BRAF hotspot mutations occur at a low
frequency in Korean populations. We also observed a case with the CTNNB1
mutation, which raises the possibility that other pathways are associated with AM
development. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/exd.13321 
PMID: 28191690 


58. Biomicrofluidics. 2017 Jan 31;11(1):014109. doi: 10.1063/1.4975192. eCollection
2017.

Single cell digital polymerase chain reaction on self-priming
compartmentalization chip.

Zhu Q(1), Qiu L(1), Xu Y(2), Li G(1), Mu Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research Center for Analytical Instrumentation, Institute of Cyber-Systems and
Control, State Key Laboratory of Industrial Control Technology, Zhejiang
University , Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310058, People's Republic of China. (2)College of
Life Sciences, Zhejiang University , Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310058, People's Republic
of China.

Single cell analysis provides a new framework for understanding biology and
disease, however, an absolute quantification of single cell gene expression still
faces many challenges. Microfluidic digital polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
provides a unique method to absolutely quantify the single cell gene expression, 
but only limited devices are developed to analyze a single cell with detection
variation. This paper describes a self-priming compartmentalization (SPC)
microfluidic digital polymerase chain reaction chip being capable of performing
single molecule amplification from single cell. The chip can be used to detect
four single cells simultaneously with 85% of sample digitization. With the
optimized protocol for the SPC chip, we first tested the ability, precision, and 
sensitivity of our SPC digital PCR chip by assessing β-actin DNA gene expression 
in 1, 10, 100, and 1000 cells. And the reproducibility of the SPC chip is
evaluated by testing 18S rRNA of single cells with 1.6%-4.6% of coefficient of
variation. At last, by detecting the lung cancer related genes, PLAU gene
expression of A549 cells at the single cell level, the single cell heterogeneity 
was demonstrated. So, with the power-free, valve-free SPC chip, the gene copy
number of single cells can be quantified absolutely with higher sensitivity,
reduced labor time, and reagent. We expect that this chip will enable new studies
for biology and disease.

DOI: 10.1063/1.4975192 
PMCID: PMC5291791 [Available on 2018-01-31]
PMID: 28191267 


59. Am J Hum Genet. 2017 Mar 2;100(3):546-554. doi: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2017.01.018. Epub 
2017 Feb 9.

Somatic MAP2K1 Mutations Are Associated with Extracranial Arteriovenous
Malformation.

Couto JA(1), Huang AY(2), Konczyk DJ(1), Goss JA(1), Fishman SJ(3), Mulliken
JB(1), Warman ML(4), Greene AK(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plastic & Oral Surgery, Boston Children's Hospital, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA. (2)Department of Orthopedic Surgery,
Boston Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(3)Department of Surgery, Boston Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, MA 02115, USA. (4)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Boston Children's
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA; Department of Genetics, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA; Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA. (5)Department of Plastic &
Oral Surgery, Boston Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA
02115, USA. Electronic address: arin.greene@childrens.harvard.edu.

Arteriovenous malformation (AVM) is a fast-flow, congenital vascular anomaly that
may arise anywhere in the body. AVMs typically progress, causing destruction of
surrounding tissue and, sometimes, cardiac overload. AVMs are difficult to
control; they often re-expand after embolization or resection, and pharmacologic 
therapy is unavailable. We studied extracranial AVMs in order to identify their
biological basis. We performed whole-exome sequencing (WES) and whole-genome
sequencing (WGS) on AVM tissue from affected individuals. Endothelial cells were 
separated from non-endothelial cells by immune-affinity purification. We used
droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) to confirm mutations found by WES and WGS, to
determine whether mutant alleles were enriched in endothelial or non-endothelial 
cells, and to screen additional AVM specimens. In seven of ten specimens, WES and
WGS detected and ddPCR confirmed somatic mutations in mitogen activated protein
kinase kinase 1 (MAP2K1), the gene that encodes MAP-extracellular
signal-regulated kinase 1 (MEK1). Mutant alleles were enriched in endothelial
cells and were not present in blood or saliva. 9 of 15 additional AVM specimens
contained mutant MAP2K1 alleles. Mutations were missense or small in-frame
deletions that affect amino acid residues within or adjacent to the protein's
negative regulatory domain. Several of these mutations have been found in cancers
and shown to increase MEK1 activity. In summary, somatic mutations in MAP2K1 are 
a common cause of extracranial AVM. The likely mechanism is endothelial cell
dysfunction due to increased MEK1 activity. MEK1 inhibitors, which are approved
to treat several forms of cancer, are potential therapeutic agents for
individuals with extracranial AVM.

Copyright © 2017 American Society of Human Genetics. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2017.01.018 
PMCID: PMC5339083 [Available on 2017-09-02]
PMID: 28190454 


60. Physiol Plant. 2017 Feb 11. doi: 10.1111/ppl.12550. [Epub ahead of print]

Comparative glandular trichome transcriptome based gene characterization reveals 
reasons for differential (-)-menthol biosynthesis in Mentha species.

Akhtar MQ(1), Qamar N(1), Yadav P(1), Kulkarni P(1), Kumar A(1), Shasany AK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biotechnology Division, CSIR - Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic
Plants, P.O. CIMAP, Lucknow-226015, U.P, India.

The genes involved in menthol biosynthesis are reported earlier in
Mentha × piperita. But the information on these genes is not available in Mentha 
arvensis. To bridge the gap in knowledge on differential biosynthesis of
monoterpenes leading to compositional variation in the essential oil of these
species, a comparative transcriptome analysis of the glandular trichome was
carried out. In addition to the MVA and MEP pathway genes, about 210 and 196
different terpene synthases (TPS) transcripts were identified from annotation in 
M. arvensis and M. × piperita, respectively, and correlated to several
monoterpenes present in the essential oil. Six isoforms of (-)-menthol
dehydrogenases (MD), the last enzyme of the menthol biosynthetic pathway, were
identified, cloned and characterized from the transcriptome data (3 from each
species). Varied expression levels and differential enzyme kinetics of these
isoforms indicated the nature and composition of the product, as these isoforms
generate both (-)-menthol and (+)-neomenthol from (-)-menthone and converts
(-)-menthol to (-)-menthone in the reverse reaction, and hence together determine
the quantity of (-)-menthol in the essential oil in these two species. Several
genes for high value minor monoterpenes could also be identified from the
transcriptome data. Abbreviations - AACT, acetyl-CoA C-acetyltransferase; CMK,
4-diphosphocytidyl-2-C-methyl-D-erythritol kinase; DGE, digital gene expression; 
DXR, 1-deoxy-D-xylulose-5-phosphate reductoisomerase; DXS,
1-deoxy-D-xylulose-5-phosphate synthase; FPPS, farnesyl pyrophosphate synthase;
GC, gas chromatography; GPPS, geranyl pyrophosphate synthase; GT, glandular
trichome; HDR, 4-hydroxy-3-methylbut-2-enyl diphosphate reductase; HDS,
(E)-4-hydroxy-3-methylbut-2-enyl-diphosphate synthase; HMGR,
3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase; HMGS, hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA 
synthase; IDI, isopentenyl-diphosphate delta-isomerase; IPD, isopiperitenol
dehydrogenase; IPI, isopulegone isomerase; IPR, isopiperitenone reductase; L3H,
limonene 3-hydroxylase; LS, limonene synthase; MCS, 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol
2,4-cyclodiphosphate synthase; MCT, 2-C-methyl-D-erythritol 4-phosphate
cytidylyltransferase; MD, menthol dehydrogenase; MEP, methylerythritol phosphate;
MFS, menthofuran synthase; MVA, mevalonic acid; MVK, mevalonate kinase; NMD,
neomenthol dehydrogenase, Nr, non-redundant; PMD, phosphomevalonate
decarboxylase; PMK, phosphomevalonate kinase; PR, pulegone reductase; qRT-PCR,
quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction; SSR, simple sequence repeat;
TPS, terpene synthase.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/ppl.12550 
PMID: 28188954 


61. Oncotarget. 2017 Feb 8. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.15191. [Epub ahead of print]

Identification of TMEM208 and PQLC2 as reference genes for normalizing mRNA
expression in colorectal cancer treated with aspirin.

Zhu Y(1), Yang C(2), Weng M(2), Zhang Y(3), Yang C(4), Jin Y(2), Yang W(2), He
Y(2), Wu Y(2), Zhang Y(2), Wang G(1), Redpath RJ(2), Zhang L(2), Jin X(2), Liu
Y(3), Sun Y(5), Ning N(6), Qiao Y(7), Zhang F(8), Li Z(1), Wang T(2), Zhang Y(1),
Li X(2,)(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastrointestinal Medical Oncology, The Affiliated Tumor Hospital
of Harbin Medical University, Harbin, China. (2)Department of Pathology, Harbin
Medical University, Harbin, China. (3)Department of Nutrition and Food Hygiene,
Public Health College, Harbin Medical University, Harbin, China. (4)Department of
Sports Humanities, Harbin Sport University, Harbin, China. (5)Center of Digital
Dentistry, Pecking University School and Hospital of Stomatology, Beijing, China.
(6)Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, International Hospital of Pecking
University, Beijing, China. (7)Department of Histology and Embryology, Harbin
Medical University, Harbin, China. (8)Department of Microbiology, Harbin Medical 
University, Harbin, China. (9)The Northern Medicine Translational Center,
Heilongjiang Province Academy of Medical Science, Harbin, China.

Numerous evidences indicate that aspirin usage causes a significant reduction in 
colorectal cancer. However, the molecular mechanisms about aspirin preventing
colon cancer are largely unknown. Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase
chain reaction (qRT-PCR) is a most frequently used method to identify the target 
molecules regulated by certain compound. However, this method needs stable
internal reference genes to analyze the expression change of the targets. In this
study, the transcriptional stabilities of several traditional reference genes
were evaluated in colon cancer cells treated with aspirin, and also, the suitable
internal reference genes were screened by using a microarray and were further
identified by using the geNorm and NormFinder softwares, and then were validated 
in more cell lines and xenografts. We have showed that three traditional internal
reference genes, β-actin, GAPDH and α-tubulin, are not suitable for studying gene
transcription in colon cancer cells treated with aspirin, and we have identified 
and validated TMEM208 and PQLC2 as the ideal internal reference genes for
detecting the molecular targets of aspirin in colon cancer in vitro and in vivo. 
This study reveals stable internal reference genes for studying the target genes 
of aspirin in colon cancer, which will contribute to identify the molecular
mechanism behind aspirin preventing colon cancer.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.15191 
PMID: 28184026 


62. Br J Cancer. 2017 Mar 14;116(6):726-730. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2017.25. Epub 2017 Feb 
9.

Correlation between PIK3CA mutations in cell-free DNA and everolimus efficacy in 
HR(+), HER2(-) advanced breast cancer: results from BOLERO-2.

Moynahan ME(1), Chen D(2), He W(2), Sung P(1), Samoila A(1), You D(1), Bhatt
T(1), Patel P(2), Ringeisen F(3), Hortobagyi GN(4), Baselga J(1), Chandarlapaty
S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY
10065, USA. (2)Oncology Precision Medicine, Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation,
East Hanover, NJ 07936, USA. (3)Global Medical Affairs, Novartis Pharma AG, Basel
CH-4002, Switzerland. (4)Department of Breast Medical Oncology, The University of
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

BACKGROUND: The current analysis was performed to evaluate the impact of PIK3CA
hotspot mutations on everolimus efficacy in BOLERO-2 participants, using
cell-free DNA (cfDNA) from plasma samples collected at the time of patient
randomisation.
METHODS: PIK3CA H1047R, E545K, and E542K mutations in plasma-derived cfDNA were
analysed by droplet digital PCR (ddPCR). Median PFS was estimated for patient
subgroups defined by PIK3CA mutations in each treatment arm.
RESULTS: Among 550 patients included in cfDNA analysis, median PFS in everolimus 
vs placebo arms was similar in patients with tumours that had wild-type or mutant
PIK3CA (hazard ratio (HR), 0.43 and 0.37, respectively). Everolimus also
prolonged median PFS in patients with PIK3CA H1047R (HR, 0.37) and E545K/E542K
mutations (HR=0.30) with a similar magnitude.
CONCLUSIONS: Mutation analysis of plasma-derived cfDNA by ddPCR suggests that PFS
benefit of everolimus was maintained irrespective of PIK3CA genotypes, consistent
with the previous analysis of archival tumour DNA by next-generation sequencing.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.2017.25 
PMID: 28183140 


63. Ann Oncol. 2017 Jan 1;28(1):136-141. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdw531.

Monitoring of somatic mutations in circulating cell-free DNA by digital PCR and
next-generation sequencing during afatinib treatment in patients with lung
adenocarcinoma positive for EGFR activating mutations.

Iwama E, Sakai K(1), Azuma K(2), Harada T(3), Harada D(4), Nosaki K(5), Hotta
K(6), Ohyanagi F(7), Kurata T(8), Fukuhara T(9), Akamatsu H(10), Goto K(11),
Shimose T(12), Kishimoto J(13), Nakanishi Y(3), Nishio K(1), Okamoto I(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genome Biology, Kinki University Faculty of Medicine,
Osaka-Sayama. (2)Division of Respirology, Neurology, and Rheumatology, Department
of Internal Medicine, Kurume University School of Medicine, Kurume. (3)Research
Institute for Diseases of the Chest, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kyushu 
University, Fukuoka. (4)Department of Thoracic Oncology, NHO Shikoku Cancer
Center, Matsuyama. (5)Department of Thoracic Oncology, National Kyushu Cancer
Center, Fukuoka. (6)Center for Innovative Clinical Medicine, Okayama University
Hospital, Okayama. (7)Department of Thoracic Medical Oncology, Cancer Institute
Hospital of Japanese Foundation for Cancer Research, Tokyo. (8)Department of
Thoracic Oncology, Kansai Medical University Hospital, Hirakata. (9)Department of
Respiratory Medicine, Miyagi Cancer Center, Natori. (10)Third Department of
Internal Medicine, Wakayama Medical University, Wakayama. (11)Department of
Thoracic Oncology, National Cancer Center Hospital East, Kashiwa. (12)Clinical
Research Support Center Kyushu, Fukuoka. (13)Department of Research and
Development of Next Generation Medicine, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdw531 
PMID: 28177428 


64. Sci Rep. 2017 Feb 8;7:42326. doi: 10.1038/srep42326.

Massively parallel digital high resolution melt for rapid and absolutely
quantitative sequence profiling.

Velez DO(1), Mack H(1), Jupe J(1), Hawker S(1), Kulkarni N(2), Hedayatnia B(2),
Zhang Y(1), Lawrence S(3), Fraley SI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Bioengineering Department, University of California San Diego, 92093, USA.
(2)Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of California San Diego,
92093, USA. (3)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine,
University of California San Diego and Rady Children's Hospital of San Diego,
92093, USA.

In clinical diagnostics and pathogen detection, profiling of complex samples for 
low-level genotypes represents a significant challenge. Advances in speed,
sensitivity, and extent of multiplexing of molecular pathogen detection assays
are needed to improve patient care. We report the development of an integrated
platform enabling the identification of bacterial pathogen DNA sequences in
complex samples in less than four hours. The system incorporates a microfluidic
chip and instrumentation to accomplish universal PCR amplification, High
Resolution Melting (HRM), and machine learning within 20,000 picoliter scale
reactions, simultaneously. Clinically relevant concentrations of bacterial DNA
molecules are separated by digitization across 20,000 reactions and amplified
with universal primers targeting the bacterial 16S gene. Amplification is
followed by HRM sequence fingerprinting in all reactions, simultaneously. The
resulting bacteria-specific melt curves are identified by Support Vector Machine 
learning, and individual pathogen loads are quantified. The platform reduces
reaction volumes by 99.995% and achieves a greater than 200-fold increase in
dynamic range of detection compared to traditional PCR HRM approaches. Type I and
II error rates are reduced by 99% and 100% respectively, compared to
intercalating dye-based digital PCR (dPCR) methods. This technology could impact 
a number of quantitative profiling applications, especially infectious disease
diagnostics.

DOI: 10.1038/srep42326 
PMCID: PMC5296755
PMID: 28176860 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors are inventors on a patent filed for
the platform presented herein.


65. J Cell Mol Med. 2017 Feb 8. doi: 10.1111/jcmm.13070. [Epub ahead of print]

Adiponectin promotes human jaw bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell chemotaxis via
CXCL1 and CXCL8.

Pu Y(1,)(2), Wang M(1,)(2), Hong Y(2,)(3), Wu Y(1,)(4), Tang Z(1,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)2nd Dental Center, Peking University School and Hospital of Stomatology,
Beijing, China. (2)Central Laboratory, Peking University School and Hospital of
Stomatology, Beijing, China. (3)Department of Pathology, Peking University School
and Hospital of Stomatology, Beijing, China. (4)National Engineering Laboratory
for Digital and Material Technology of Stomatology, Peking University School and 
Hospital of Stomatology, Beijing, China.

Adiponectin (APN) is known to promote the osteogenic differentiation of human jaw
bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (h-JBMMSCs). However, the underlying mechanism
has not been fully elucidated. Previously, we showed that APN could promote
h-JBMMSC osteogenesis via APPL1-p38 by up-regulating osteogenesis-related genes. 
Here, we aimed to determine whether APN could promote h-JBMMSC chemotaxis through
CXCL1/CXCL8. The CCK-8, wound healing and transwell assays were used to evaluate 
the proliferation, migration and chemotaxis of h-JBMMSCs with or without APN
treatment. Chemotaxis-related genes were screened using RNA-seq, and the results 
were validated using real-time PCR and ELISA. We also performed Western blot
using the AMPK inhibitor, WZ4003, and the p38 MAPK inhibitor, SB203580, to
identify the signalling pathway involved. We found that APN could promote
h-JBMMSC chemotaxis in the co-culture transwell system. CXCL1 and CXCL8 were
screened and confirmed as the up-regulated target genes. The APN-induced CXCL1/8 
up-regulation to promote chemotaxis could be blocked by CXCR2 inhibitor SB225002.
Western blot revealed that the phosphorylation of AMPK and p38 MAPK increased in 
a time-dependent manner with APN treatment. Additionally, WZ4003 and SB203580
could suppress the APN-induced overexpression of CXCL1 and CXCL8. The results of 
the transwell chemotaxis assay also supported the above results. Our data suggest
that APN can promote h-JBMMSC chemotaxis by up-regulating CXCL1 and CXCL8.

© 2017 The Authors. Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd and Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/jcmm.13070 
PMID: 28176455 


66. Front Microbiol. 2017 Jan 24;8:53. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2017.00053. eCollection
2017.

Evaluation of Molecular Methods for the Detection and Quantification of
Pathogen-Derived Nucleic Acids in Sediment.

Farkas K(1), Hassard F(2), McDonald JE(3), Malham SK(2), Jones DL(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Environment, Natural Resources and Geography, Bangor University
Bangor, Wales. (2)School of Ocean Sciences, Bangor University Bangor, Wales.
(3)School of Biological Sciences, Bangor University Bangor, Wales.

The accurate detection of pathogens in environmental matrices, such as sediment, 
is critical in understanding pathogen fate and behavior in the environment. In
this study, we assessed the usefulness of methods for the detection and
quantification of Vibrio spp. and norovirus (NoV) nucleic acids in sediment. For 
bacteria, a commonly used direct method using hexadecyltrimethylammonium bromide 
(CTAB) and phenol-chloroform-isoamyl alcohol (PCI) extraction was optimized,
whereas for NoV, direct and indirect (virus elution-concentration) methods were
evaluated. For quantification, commercially available quantitative PCR (qPCR) and
reverse transcription qPCR (RT-qPCR) kits were tested alongside a digital PCR
(dPCR) approach. CTAB-based extraction combined with 16 h polyethylene glycol
6000 (PEG6000) precipitation was found to be suitable for the direct extraction
of high abundance bacterial and viral nucleic acids. For the indirect extraction 
of viral RNA, beef extract-based elution followed by PEG6000 precipitation and
extraction using the NucliSENS® MiniMag® Nucleic Acid Purification System and the
PowerViral® Environmental RNA/DNA Isolation Kit and qRT-PCR resulted in 83-112
and 63-69% recoveries of NoV, respectively. dPCR resulted in lower viral
recoveries (47 and 9%) and ~4 orders of magnitude lower Vibrio concentrations
(3.6-4.6 log10 gc/100 g sediment) than was observed using qPCR. The use of
internal controls during viral quantification revealed that the RT step was more 
affected by inhibitors than the amplification. The methods described here are
suitable for the enumeration of viral and/or bacterial pathogens in sediment,
however the use of internal controls to assess efficiency is recommended.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2017.00053 
PMCID: PMC5258707
PMID: 28174565 


67. Zhonghua Bing Li Xue Za Zhi. 2017 Feb 8;46(2):98-101. doi:
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0529-5807.2017.02.007.

[Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation status before and after
acquired resistance to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors in patients with lung
adenocarcinoma].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Ye SB(1), Li R, Shi SS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Nanjing Clinical Academy of Southern Medical
University, Nanjing Jinling Hospital, Nanjing 210002, China.

Objective: To investigate epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation status
in lung adenocarcinomas before and after acquiring resistance to EGFR tyrosine
kinase inhibitors (TKIs) using ARMS method followed by further verification using
droplet digital PCR technique. Methods: Twenty qualified patients were included, 
among them 13 were male and 7 were female patients. Before EGFR-TKIs treatment, 5
patients were EGFR wild-type by ARMS, and the other 15 patients had L858R or
19-del point mutations. The time to progression varied from 4 to 18 months.
Mutation of exons 18, 19, 20 and 21 were detected by ARMS, and were verified by
droplet digital PCR system method. Results: EGFR wild-type status was unchanged
before and after acquired resistance to EGFR-TKIs in 5 lung adenocarcinoma
patients. Alteration of EGFR mutation status occurred in 10 of the 15 patients
with pre-treatment L858R or 19-del mutations. Among them, T790M mutation was
found in 8 patients, L858R became G719X plus S768I mutation in one patient, and
19-del converted into wild-type in one other patient. Conclusions: T790M mutation
is the primary type of EGFR mutation in lung adenocarcinomas with acquired
resistance to EGFR-TKIs therapy. Acquired resistance to EGFR-TKIs dose not lead
to the alteration of EGFR status in pre-treatment EGFR wild-type patients, but
can alter EGFR mutation status in pre-treatment EGFR mutant patients.

Publisher: 目的：
应用突变扩增阻滞系统(ARMS)法检测肺腺癌患者表皮生长因子受体(EGFR)酪氨酸激酶抑制剂(TKI)获得性耐药前后EGFR基因突变情况，并用微滴式数字PCR系统
(ddPCR)对其进一步验证，探讨获得性耐药前后EGFR基因状态的变化情况，并结合这些变化情况讨论导致这些EGFR基因改变的可能原因。 方法：
收集EGFR－TKI治疗前以及EGFR－TKI获得性耐药后均进行取材的肺腺癌患者20例，其中EGFR－TKI治疗前ARMS法EGFR基因检测有5例为野生型，15例
为EGFR－TKI敏感性突变位点L858R和19－del，疾病进展时间4～18个月不等，男性13例，女性7例。采用ARMS法进行EGFR基因第18、19、20、2
1号外显子突变检测，ddPCR对其进一步验证。 结果：
20例肺腺癌患者中，5例EGFR－TKI治疗前EGFR基因野生型患者，在发生EGFR－TKI获得性耐药后EGFR基因同样为野生型。15例治疗前EGFR－TKI敏感
性突变患者中，获得性耐药后有10例EGFR基因发生了改变，其中T790M突变的有8例，1例患者EGFR基因由原来的L858R变为G719X＋S768I双突变，还有
1例患者EGFR基因由原来的19－del变为野生型。其次，EGFR－TKI获得性耐药后ARMS法有2例发生T790M突变的胸水细胞块未检出。 结论：
EGFR基因T790M突变是导致获得性耐药的主要突变类型；对于EGFR基因阴性患者，EGFR－TKI获得性耐药并没有使其EGFR基因发生改变；对于EGFR－TKI
敏感性的EGFR突变患者，EGFR－TKI获得性耐药可能会使EGFR药敏突变位点发生丢失或改变。.

PMID: 28173668 


68. Zhonghua Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2017 Feb 1;55(2):95-98. doi:
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0529-5815.2017.02.004.

[Hot topics of circulating tumor DNA testing in breast cancer].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Liu YH(1), Zhou B, Xu L, Xin L.

Author information: 
(1)Breast Disease Center, Peking University First Hospital, Beijing 100034,
China.

The progress of gene detection technologies represented by next generation
sequencing (NGS) and digital PCR laid a foundation for studies of circulating
tumor DNA (ctDNA) in breast cancer. In 2014, the NGS workgroup organized by the
College of American Pathologists (CAP) published the College of American
Pathologists' Laboratory Standards for Next-Generation Sequencing Clinical Tests,
which provides a blueprint for the standardization of gene testing. In 2015, the 
Guidelines for Diagnostic Next-generation Sequencing published by the European
Society of Human Genetics claimed that NGS is unacceptable in clinical practice
before studies guided by guidelines are approved. Although existing studies show 
the benefits of ctDNA testing in disease monitoring and prognosis analyzing, we
have a ways to go to normalize the procedure and build strict detection criteria.

Publisher:
以二代测序和数字PCR为代表的基因检测技术的进步，为乳腺癌循环肿瘤DNA相关研究奠定了基础。2014年，美国病理学会颁布了二代测序临床检测实验室标准，为规范基因诊
断提供了参考蓝本。2015年，欧洲人类遗传学会明确指出在依据指南建立研究并获得共识以前，二代测序技术尚不能指导临床实践。尽管现有研究结果显示，循环肿瘤DNA在乳腺
癌病情监测、预后分析及个体化用药指导方面具有良好应用前景，但规范检测技术流程、严格判读标准的工作任重道远。.

PMID: 28162206 


69. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2017 Apr;409(10):2727-2735. doi: 10.1007/s00216-017-0217-x.
Epub 2017 Feb 2.

Accurate quantitation of circulating cell-free mitochondrial DNA in plasma by
droplet digital PCR.

Ye W(1), Tang X(1), Liu C(1), Wen C(1), Li W(1), Lyu J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Laboratory Medicine, Ministry of Education of China, School 
of Laboratory Medicine and Life Science, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou,
Zhejiang, 325035, China. (2)Key Laboratory of Laboratory Medicine, Ministry of
Education of China, School of Laboratory Medicine and Life Science, Wenzhou
Medical University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang, 325035, China. ljxwzmc@aliyun.com.

To establish a method for accurate quantitation of circulating cell-free
mitochondrial DNA (ccf-mtDNA) in plasma by droplet digital PCR (ddPCR), we
designed a ddPCR method to determine the copy number of ccf-mtDNA by amplifying
mitochondrial ND1 (MT-ND1). To evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of the
method, a recombinant pMD18-T plasmid containing MT-ND1 sequences and
mtDNA-deleted (ρ(0)) HeLa cells were used, respectively. Subsequently, different 
plasma samples were prepared for ddPCR to evaluate the feasibility of detecting
plasma ccf-mtDNA. In the results, the ddPCR method showed high sensitivity and
specificity. When the DNA was extracted from plasma prior to ddPCR, the ccf-mtDNA
copy number was higher than that measured without extraction. This difference was
not due to a PCR inhibitor, such as EDTA-Na2, an anti-coagulant in plasma,
because standard EDTA-Na2 concentration (5 mM) did not significantly inhibit
ddPCR reactions. The difference might be attributable to plasma exosomal mtDNA,
which was 4.21 ± 0.38 copies/μL of plasma, accounting for ∼19% of plasma
ccf-mtDNA. Therefore, ddPCR can quickly and reliably detect ccf-mtDNA from plasma
with a prior DNA extraction step, providing for a more accurate detection of
ccf-mtDNA. The direct use of plasma as a template in ddPCR is suitable for the
detection of exogenous cell-free nucleic acids within plasma, but not of nucleic 
acids that have a vesicle-associated form, such as exosomal mtDNA. Graphical
Abstract Designs of the present work. *: Module 1, #: Module 2, &: Module 3.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-017-0217-x 
PMID: 28154880 


70. J Clin Pathol. 2017 Feb 2. pii: jclinpath-2016-204202. doi:
10.1136/jclinpath-2016-204202. [Epub ahead of print]

Evaluation of a fast and fully automated platform to diagnose EGFR and KRAS
mutations in formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded non-small cell lung cancer
samples in less than one day.

Lambros L(1), Caumont C(2), Guibourg B(1), Barel F(1), Quintin-Roué I(1),
Marcorelles P(1,)(3), Merlio JP(2), Uguen A(1,)(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, CHRU Brest, Brest, France. (2)Department of Tumors
Biology, CHU Bordeaux Haut-Lévêque, Pessac, France. (3)Inserm, Brest, France.
(4)European University of Brittany, France.

AIMS: Searching for EGFR and KRAS mutations within non-small cell lung carcinoma 
(NSCLC) samples remains time-consuming and can delay treatment choices in
patients with acute deterioration. We evaluated the performances of the fully
automated Idylla platform to quickly detect these mutations in NSCLC samples.
METHODS: We used the Idylla EGFR Mutation Assay and the Idylla KRAS Mutation Test
to analyse 18 formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded NSCLC tumour samples with known
EGFR and KRAS mutation status according to next-generation sequencing (NGS) and
droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) for EGFRT790M mutations.
RESULTS: Idylla assays identified KRAS and EGFR activating mutations in 4 and 10 
NSCLC samples, respectively. EGFRT790M resistance mutations were identified in
only 1 sample using Idylla but in 4 and 14 samples using NGS and ddPCR,
respectively. No false-positive result was noted with Idylla assays. Mutation
written report was obtained after 130 min (KRAS assays) to 140 min (EGFR assays).
CONCLUSIONS: The Idylla platform is an interesting ancillary first-line fast and 
fully automated tool to detect EGFR and KRAS mutations in NSCLC samples allowing 
rapid treatment choices in patients with acute deterioration.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/.

DOI: 10.1136/jclinpath-2016-204202 
PMID: 28153953 


71. Oncotarget. 2017 Jan 31. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.14926. [Epub ahead of print]

Detection fidelity of AR mutations in plasma derived cell-free DNA.

Goldstein A(1,)(2,)(3), Valda Toro P(1,)(2,)(3), Lee J(2,)(3), Silberstein
JL(1,)(3), Nakazawa M(1,)(3), Waters I(2,)(3), Cravero K(2,)(3), Chu D(2,)(3),
Cochran RL(2,)(3), Kim M(2,)(3), Shinn D(2,)(3), Torquato S(1,)(2,)(3), Hughes
RM(1,)(2,)(3), Pallavajjala A(4), Carducci MA(2,)(3), Paller CJ(2,)(3), Denmeade 
SR(2,)(3), Kressel B(2,)(3), Trock BJ(1), Eisenberger MA(1,)(2,)(3), Antonarakis 
ES(1,)(2,)(3), Park BH(2,)(3,)(5), Hurley PJ(1,)(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)The James Buchanan Brady Urological Institute, Department of Urology, Johns
Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA. (2)The Department of Oncology,
Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA. (3)The Sidney Kimmel Cancer
Center, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA. (4)The Department
of Pathology, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA. (5)The
Whiting School of Engineering, Department of Chemical and Biomolecular
Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA.

Somatic genetic alterations including copy number and point mutations in the
androgen receptor (AR) are associated with resistance to therapies targeting the 
androgen/AR axis in patients with metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer
(mCRPC). Due to limitations associated with biopsying metastatic lesions, plasma 
derived cell-free DNA (cfDNA) is increasingly being used as substrate for genetic
testing. AR mutations detected by deep next generation sequencing (NGS) of cfDNA 
from patients with mCRPC have been reported at allelic fractions ranging from
over 25% to below 1%. The lower bound threshold for accurate mutation detection
by deep sequencing of cfDNA has not been comprehensively determined and may have 
locus specific variability. Herein, we used NGS for AR mutation discovery in
plasma-derived cfDNA from patients with mCRPC and then used droplet digital
polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR) for validation. Our findings show the AR
(tTC>cTC) F877L hotspot was prone to false positive mutations during NGS. The
rate of error at AR (tTC>cTC) F877L during amplification prior to ddPCR was
variable among high fidelity polymerases. These results highlight the importance 
of validating low-abundant mutations detected by NGS and optimizing and
controlling for amplification conditions prior to ddPCR.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.14926 
PMID: 28152506 


72. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2016 Dec;5(6):665-672. doi: 10.21037/tlcr.2016.12.03.

Comparison of methods for circulating cell-free DNA isolation using blood from
cancer patients: impact on biomarker testing.

Pérez-Barrios C(1), Nieto-Alcolado I(2), Torrente M(3), Jiménez-Sánchez C(2),
Calvo V(3), Gutierrez-Sanz L(3), Palka M(3), Donoso-Navarro E(1), Provencio M(3),
Romero A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory Medicine Department, Puerta de Hierro Hospital, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Traslational Oncology Laboratoryt, Puerta de Hierro Hospital, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Medical Oncology Department, Puerta de Hierro Hospital, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Traslational Oncology Laboratoryt, Puerta de Hierro Hospital, Madrid, Spain;
Medical Oncology Department, Puerta de Hierro Hospital, Madrid, Spain.

BACKGROUND: The implementation of liquid biopsy for biomarker testing and
response to treatment monitoring in cancer patients would presumable increase
laboratory throughput, requiring the development of automated methods for
circulating free DNA (cfDNA) isolation.
METHODS: The present study compares the MagNA Pure Compact (MPC) Nucleic Acid
Isolation Kit I and Maxwell(®) RSC (MR) ccfDNA Plasma Kit and the later with
QIAamp Circulating Nucleid Acid (QCNA) Kit using 57 plasma samples from cancer
patients. cfDNA concentration was measured using the Qubit fluorometer. DNA
fragments lengt were assessed using the Agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer. Circulating
tumor DNA (ctDNA) was quantified by digital PCR (dPCR).
RESULTS: Firstly, we observed that MPC method significantly extracted less cfDNA 
than MR (P<0.0001). However, there were no significant differences in extraction 
yields of QCNA and MR kits. cfDNA isolation yield was also associated with tumor 
stage but not with tumor location. Secondly, an oligonucleosomal DNA ladder
pattern was observed in 88% of the samples and significant differences in the
recovery of mono-, di- and tri-nucleosomes DNA fragments were observed between
MPC and MR methodologies. Finally, tumor mutation quantification on cfDNA was
performed on 38 paired samples using digital PCR. Mutant allele fractions (MAFs) 
between paired samples were not significantly different.
CONCLUSIONS: Methods for isolation of cfDNA can affect DNA yield and molecular
weight fractions recovery. These observations should be taken into account for
cfDNA analysis in routine clinical practice.

DOI: 10.21037/tlcr.2016.12.03 
PMCID: PMC5233878
PMID: 28149760 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to
declare.


73. Clin Cancer Res. 2017 Feb 1. pii: clincanres.2244.2016. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-2244. [Epub ahead of print]

Predicting the grade of dysplasia of pancreatic cystic neoplasms using cyst fluid
DNA methylation markers.

Hata T(1), Dal Molin M(2), Hong SM(3), Tamura K(4), Suenaga M(1), Yu J(5),
Sedogawa H(6), Weiss MJ(7), Wolfgang CL(7), Lennon AM(8), Hruban RH(4), Goggins
MG(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Sol Goldman Pancreatic Cancer Research Center, Johns 
Hopkins Medical Institutions. (2)The Sol Goldman Pancreatic Cancer Research
Center, Johns Hopkins Medical Institution. (3)Department of Pathology, Asan
Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of Medicine. (4)Department of
Pathology, Sol Goldman Pancreatic Cancer Research Center, Johns Hopkins School of
Medicine. (5)Departments of Pathology,Medicine and Oncology, The Johns Hopkins
Medical Institutions. (6)Pathology, Tohoku University. (7)Department of Surgery, 
Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions. (8)Medicine, Johns Hopkins Medical
Institutions. (9)Department of Pathology, Sol Goldman Pancreatic Cancer Research 
Center, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine mgoggins@jhmi.edu.

PURPOSE: Pancreatic cysts are common and pose diagnostic and management
challenges. Pancreatic cyst fluid markers have the potential to aid in the
management of cysts with concerning imaging findings. Our aim was to evaluate
cyst fluid methylated DNA markers for their accuracy for predicting the
histologic grade of neoplastic pancreatic cysts.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Pancreatic cyst fluid samples from 183 patients (29
discovery, 154 validation) aspirated after surgical resection were analyzed for
methylated DNA at selected genes (SOX17, BNIP3, FOXE1, PTCHD2, SLIT2, EYA4 and
SFRP1) using methylation-specific droplet-digital PCR (dd-QMSP). Methylated DNA
levels were evaluated for their accuracy at predicting the grade of dysplasia of 
the pancreatic cyst.
RESULTS: All six markers evaluated in the validation set could accurately
distinguish high-risk cystic neoplasms (with high-grade dysplasia and/or
associated invasive cancer) from low-risk cysts (lower grades of dysplasia) with 
accuracies from 79.8 to 83.6%. Methylated SOX17 had the highest overall accuracy 
as a single marker (sensitivity, 78.4%; specificity, 85.6%; accuracy 83.6%,
cut-off; 25 methylated DNA molecules/μL cyst fluid). The best four-gene
combination had 84.3% sensitivity, 89.4% specificity and 88.0% accuracy at
distinguishing cysts with high-grade dysplasia and/or invasive cancer from those 
without. All six markers were independent predictors of having invasive
cancer/high-grade dysplasia after adjusting for clinical/imaging factors known to
be associated with grade of dysplasia. The combination of methylated SOX17 with
cytology better predicted neoplastic grade than cytology alone.
CONCLUSION: A panel of methylated gene markers quantified by dd-QMSP can be used 
to predict the grade of dysplasia of pancreatic cysts.

Copyright ©2017, American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-2244 
PMID: 28148542 


74. Pancreatology. 2017 Mar - Apr;17(2):285-290. doi: 10.1016/j.pan.2016.12.011. Epub
2016 Dec 27.

Utility of serum DNA as a marker for KRAS mutations in pancreatic cancer tissue.

Ako S(1), Nouso K(2), Kinugasa H(3), Dohi C(3), Matushita H(3), Mizukawa S(3),
Muro S(3), Akimoto Y(3), Uchida D(3), Tomoda T(3), Matsumoto K(3), Horiguchi
S(3), Tsutsumi K(3), Kato H(3), Okada H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Okayama University Graduate
School of Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama, Japan.
Electronic address: soichiro.ako@gmail.com. (2)Department of Gastroenterology and
Hepatology, Okayama University Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry and
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama, Japan; Department of Gastroenterology, Okayama 
City Hospital, Okayama, Japan. (3)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, 
Okayama University Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Okayama, Japan.

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: The detection of cancer-specific DNA in peripheral blood, 
known as a liquid biopsy, has been reported recently. Most such studies have used
plasma as a sample; however, whether or not serum can be used as effectively is
unclear. We attempted to clarify suitable samples for detecting KRAS mutations in
circulating DNA in the blood of pancreatic cancer patients using droplet digital 
polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
METHODS: DNA was extracted from the tissue, plasma, and serum of 40 pancreatic
cancer patients. The presence of KRAS mutations G12D, G12V, and G12R was analyzed
by droplet digital PCR.
RESULTS: The amount of DNA isolated from the serum was much higher than that from
plasma (1.0- to 42.0-fold). At least 1 KRAS mutation was observed in 93% of
cancer tissues, whereas we detected the mutations in only 48% of the serum and
plasma DNA samples. The G12D mutation was the most prevalent of the three
mutations, followed by the G12V mutation. The presence of the G12D KRAS mutation 
in the plasma, serum, or tissue did not correlate to the overall survival;
however, the prognosis of the patients with a KRAS mutation at G12V in the plasma
or serum was significantly poorer than that of the patients without the mutation 
(P < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Serum and plasma were found to be good materials for detecting
cancer-specific DNA in the peripheral blood and the presence of KRAS mutations in
blood-derived DNA may be used as a prognostic biomarker for patients with
pancreatic cancer.

Copyright © 2017 IAP and EPC. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pan.2016.12.011 
PMID: 28139399 


75. Methods Mol Biol. 2017;1551:273-305. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-6750-6_14.

Discovery of Rare Haplotypes by Typing Millions of Single-Molecules with Bead
Emulsion Haplotyping (BEH).

Palzenberger E(1), Reinhardt R(1), Muresan L(2), Palaoro B(1), Tiemann-Boege
I(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biophysics, Johannes Kepler University, Gruberstraße 40, 4020,
Linz, Austria. (2)Cambridge Advanced Imaging Centre, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge, UK. (3)Institute of Biophysics, Johannes Kepler University,
Gruberstraße 40, 4020, Linz, Austria. Irene.tiemann@jku.at.

Characterizing polymorphisms on single molecules renders the phase of different
alleles, and thus, haplotype information. Here, we describe a high-throughput
method to genotype hundreds-of thousands single molecules in parallel using
bead-emulsion haplotyping (BEH). Haplotyping via BEH is an emulsion-PCR-based
method that was adapted to amplify multiple DNA fragments on paramagnetic,
microscopic beads within a compartment formed by an aqueous-oil emulsion. This
generates beads covered by thousands of clonal copies from several polymorphic
regions of an initial DNA molecule that are then genotyped with fluorescently
labeled probes. With BEH, up to three different polymorphisms (or more if several
polymorphisms are within an amplicon) can be typed within a fragment of several
kilobases in a singleexperiment, rendering haplotype information of a very large 
number of initial single molecules. The high throughput and digital nature of the
method makes it ideal to quantify rare haplotypes or to assess the haplotype
diversity in complex samples.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-6750-6_14 
PMID: 28138851 


76. Curr Opin Obstet Gynecol. 2017 Apr;29(2):73-79. doi:
10.1097/GCO.0000000000000347.

Noninvasive prenatal diagnosis for single gene disorders.

Allen S(1), Young E, Bowns B.

Author information: 
(1)West Midlands Regional Genetics Laboratory, Birmingham Women's Hospital NHS
Foundation Trust, Birmingham, UK.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Noninvasive prenatal diagnosis for single gene disorders is
coming to fruition in its clinical utility. The presence of cell-free DNA in
maternal plasma has been recognized for many years, and a number of applications 
have developed from this. Noninvasive prenatal diagnosis for single gene
disorders has lagged behind due to complexities of technology development, lack
of investment and the need for validation samples for rare disorders.
RECENT FINDINGS: Publications are emerging demonstrating a variety of technical
approaches and feasibility of clinical application. Techniques for analysis of
cell-free DNA including digital PCR, next-generation sequencing and relative
haplotype dosage have been used most often for assay development. Analysis of
circulating fetal cells in the maternal blood is still being investigated as a
viable alternative and more recently transcervical trophoblast cells. Studies
exploring ethical and social issues are generally positive but raise concerns
around the routinization of prenatal testing.
SUMMARY: Further work is necessary to make testing available to all patients with
a pregnancy at risk of a single gene disorder, and it remains to be seen if the
development of more powerful technologies such as isolation and analysis of
single cells will shift the emphasis of noninvasive prenatal diagnosis. As
testing becomes possible for a wider range of conditions, more ethical questions 
will become relevant.

DOI: 10.1097/GCO.0000000000000347 
PMID: 28134670 


77. PLoS One. 2017 Jan 26;12(1):e0170897. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0170897.
eCollection 2017.

Digital PCR Improves Mutation Analysis in Pancreas Fine Needle Aspiration Biopsy 
Specimens.

Sho S(1,)(2), Court CM(1,)(2,)(3), Kim S(4,)(5), Braxton DR(6), Hou S(3),
Muthusamy VR(4,)(5), Watson RR(4,)(5), Sedarat A(4,)(5), Tseng HR(3), Tomlinson
JS(1,)(2,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles,
California, United States of America. (2)Department of Surgery, Greater Los
Angeles Veteran's Affairs Administration, Los Angeles, California, United States 
of America. (3)Department of Molecular and Medical Pharmacology, University of
California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California, United States of America.
(4)UCLA Center for Pancreatic Diseases, University of California Los Angeles, Los
Angeles, California, United States of America. (5)Division of Digestive Diseases,
David Geffen School of Medicine at the University of California Los Angeles, Los 
Angeles, California, United States of America. (6)Department of Pathology,
University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California, United States of
America.

Applications of precision oncology strategies rely on accurate tumor genotyping
from clinically available specimens. Fine needle aspirations (FNA) are frequently
obtained in cancer management and often represent the only source of tumor
tissues for patients with metastatic or locally advanced diseases. However, FNAs 
obtained from pancreas ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) are often limited in
cellularity and/or tumor cell purity, precluding accurate tumor genotyping in
many cases. Digital PCR (dPCR) is a technology with exceptional sensitivity and
low DNA template requirement, characteristics that are necessary for analyzing
PDAC FNA samples. In the current study, we sought to evaluate dPCR as a mutation 
analysis tool for pancreas FNA specimens. To this end, we analyzed alterations in
the KRAS gene in pancreas FNAs using dPCR. The sensitivity of dPCR mutation
analysis was first determined using serial dilution cell spiking studies.
Single-cell laser-microdissection (LMD) was then utilized to identify the minimal
number of tumor cells needed for mutation detection. Lastly, dPCR mutation
analysis was performed on 44 pancreas FNAs (34 formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded
(FFPE) and 10 fresh (non-fixed)), including samples highly limited in cellularity
(100 cells) and tumor cell purity (1%). We found dPCR to detect mutations with
allele frequencies as low as 0.17%. Additionally, a single tumor cell could be
detected within an abundance of normal cells. Using clinical FNA samples, dPCR
mutation analysis was successful in all preoperative FNA biopsies tested, and its
accuracy was confirmed via comparison with resected tumor specimens. Moreover,
dPCR revealed additional KRAS mutations representing minor subclones within a
tumor that were not detected by the current clinical gold standard method of
Sanger sequencing. In conclusion, dPCR performs sensitive and accurate mutation
analysis in pancreas FNAs, detecting not only the dominant mutation subtype, but 
also the additional rare mutation subtypes representing tumor heterogeneity.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0170897 
PMCID: PMC5268428
PMID: 28125707 

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Hsian-Rong Tseng is Co-Founder of Cytolumina 
Technologies Corp. Inc. All other authors have declared that no competing
interests exist. This does not alter our adherence to PLOS ONE policies on
sharing data and materials.


78. PLoS One. 2017 Jan 26;12(1):e0170767. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0170767.
eCollection 2017.

Differences in AMY1 Gene Copy Numbers Derived from Blood, Buccal Cells and Saliva
Using Quantitative and Droplet Digital PCR Methods: Flagging the Pitfall.

Ooi DS(1,)(2), Tan VM(1,)(2,)(3), Ong SG(1,)(2), Chan YH(4), Heng CK(1,)(2), Lee 
YS(1,)(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National
University of Singapore, Singapore. (2)Division of Endocrinology and Diabetes,
Khoo Teck Puat-National University Children's Medical Institute, National
University Hospital, National University Health System, Singapore. (3)Singapore
Institute for Clinical Sciences, A*STAR, Singapore. (4)Biostatistics Unit, Yong
Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore.

INTRODUCTION: The human salivary (AMY1) gene, encoding salivary α-amylase, has
variable copy number variants (CNVs) in the human genome. We aimed to determine
if real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) and the more recently 
available Droplet Digital PCR (ddPCR) can provide a precise quantification of the
AMY1 gene copy number in blood, buccal cells and saliva samples derived from the 
same individual.
METHODS: Seven participants were recruited and DNA was extracted from the blood, 
buccal cells and saliva samples provided by each participant. Taqman assay
real-time qPCR and ddPCR were conducted to quantify AMY1 gene copy numbers.
Statistical analysis was carried out to determine the difference in AMY1 gene
copy number between the different biological specimens and different assay
methods.
RESULTS: We found significant within-individual difference (p<0.01) in AMY1 gene 
copy number between different biological samples as determined by qPCR. However, 
there was no significant within-individual difference in AMY1 gene copy number
between different biological samples as determined by ddPCR. We also found that
AMY1 gene copy number of blood samples were comparable between qPCR and ddPCR,
while there is a significant difference (p<0.01) between AMY1 gene copy numbers
measured by qPCR and ddPCR for both buccal swab and saliva samples.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite buccal cells and saliva samples being possible sources of
DNA, it is pertinent that ddPCR or a single biological sample, preferably blood
sample, be used for determining highly polymorphic gene copy numbers like AMY1,
due to the large within-individual variability between different biological
samples if real time qPCR is employed.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0170767 
PMCID: PMC5268653
PMID: 28125683 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


79. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2017 Apr;409(10):2601-2614. doi: 10.1007/s00216-017-0206-0.
Epub 2017 Jan 26.

Inter-laboratory assessment of different digital PCR platforms for quantification
of human cytomegalovirus DNA.

Pavšič J(1,)(2), Devonshire A(3), Blejec A(4), Foy CA(3), Van Heuverswyn F(5),
Jones GM(3), Schimmel H(5), Žel J(4), Huggett JF(3,)(6), Redshaw N(3),
Karczmarczyk M(5), Mozioğlu E(7), Akyürek S(7), Akgöz M(7), Milavec M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Systems Biology, National Institute of
Biology, Večna pot 111, 1000, Ljubljana, Slovenia. jernej.pavsic@nib.si. (2)Jožef
Stefan International Postgraduate School, Jamova 39, 1000, Ljubljana, Slovenia.
jernej.pavsic@nib.si. (3)Molecular and Cell Biology, LGC Ltd., Queens Road,
Teddington, Middlesex, TW11 0LY, UK. (4)Department of Biotechnology and Systems
Biology, National Institute of Biology, Večna pot 111, 1000, Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(5)European Commission, Joint Research Centre (JRC), Directorate F. Retieseweg
111, 2440, Geel, Belgium. (6)School of Biosciences and Medicine, Faculty of
Health and Medical Science, University of Surrey, Guildford, Surrey, GU2 7XH, UK.
(7)Bioanalysis Laboratory, National Metrology Institute of Turkey, (TUBITAK UME),
PO Box 54, 41470, Gebze, Kocaeli, Turkey.

Quantitative PCR (qPCR) is an important tool in pathogen detection. However, the 
use of different qPCR components, calibration materials and DNA extraction
methods reduces comparability between laboratories, which can result in false
diagnosis and discrepancies in patient care. The wider establishment of a
metrological framework for nucleic acid tests could improve the degree of
standardisation of pathogen detection and the quantification methods applied in
the clinical context. To achieve this, accurate methods need to be developed and 
implemented as reference measurement procedures, and to facilitate
characterisation of suitable certified reference materials. Digital PCR (dPCR)
has already been used for pathogen quantification by analysing nucleic acids.
Although dPCR has the potential to provide robust and accurate quantification of 
nucleic acids, further assessment of its actual performance characteristics is
needed before it can be implemented in a metrological framework, and to allow
adequate estimation of measurement uncertainties. Here, four laboratories
demonstrated reproducibility (expanded measurement uncertainties below 15%) of
dPCR for quantification of DNA from human cytomegalovirus, with no calibration to
a common reference material. Using whole-virus material and extracted DNA, an
intermediate precision (coefficients of variation below 25%) between three
consecutive experiments was noted. Furthermore, discrepancies in estimated mean
DNA copy number concentrations between laboratories were less than twofold, with 
DNA extraction as the main source of variability. These data demonstrate that
dPCR offers a repeatable and reproducible method for quantification of viral DNA,
and due to its satisfactory performance should be considered as candidate for
reference methods for implementation in a metrological framework.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-017-0206-0 
PMID: 28124757 


80. Cancer Biol Ther. 2017 Jan 25:1-8. doi: 10.1080/15384047.2017.1281499. [Epub
ahead of print]

Detection of mutant KRAS and TP53 DNA in circulating exosomes from healthy
individuals and patients with pancreatic cancer.

Yang S(1), Che SP(1), Kurywchak P(1), Tavormina JL(1), Gansmo LB(1), Correa de
Sampaio P(1), Tachezy M(2), Bockhorn M(2), Gebauer F(2), Haltom AR(1), Melo
SA(3,)(4), LeBleu VS(1), Kalluri R(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Cancer Biology , Metastasis Research Center, University of
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center , Houston , TX , USA. (2)b Department of General 
, Visceral and Thoracic Surgery, University Medical Center of Hamburg-Eppendorf ,
Hamburg , Germany. (3)c Instituto de Investigação e Inovação em Saúde,
Universidade do Porto, Portugal (I3S). (4)d Institute of Pathology and Molecular 
Immunology of the University of Porto (IPATIMUP) , Porto , Portugal.

Pancreatic cancer presents with a dismal mortality rate and is in urgent need of 
methods for early detection with potential for timely intervention. All living
cells, including cancer cells, generate exosomes. We previously discovered double
stranded genomic DNA in exosomes derived from the circulation of pancreatic
cancer patients, which enabled the detection of prevalent mutations associated
with the disease. Here, we report a proof-of-concept study that demonstrates the 
potential clinical utility of circulating exosomal DNA for identification of
KRAS(G)(12)(D) and TP53(R)(273)(H) mutations in patients with pancreas-associated
pathologies, including pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), chronic
pancreatitis (CP) and intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm (IPMN), and in
healthy human subjects. In 48 clinically annotated serum samples from PDAC
patients, digital PCR analyses of exosomal DNA identified KRAS(G)(12)(D) mutation
in 39.6% of cases, and TP53(R)(273)(H) mutation in 4.2% of cases. KRAS(G)(12)(D) 
and TP53(R)(273)(H) mutations were also detected in exosomal DNA from IPMN
patients (2 out of 7 with KRAS(G)(12)(D), one of which also co-presented with
TP53(R)(273)(H) mutation). Circulating exosomal DNA in 5 out of 9 CP patients
enabled the detection of KRAS(G)(12)(D) mutation. In 114 healthy subject-derived 
circulating exosomal DNA, 2.6% presented with KRAS(G)(12)(D) mutation and none
with TP53(R)(273)(H) mutation. This study highlights the value of circulating
exosomal DNA for a rapid, low-cost identification of cancer driving mutations.
The identification of mutations in IPMN patients and healthy subjects suggests
that liquid biopsies may allow potential assessment of cancer risk but with a
cautionary note that detection of clinical cancer cannot be assumed.

DOI: 10.1080/15384047.2017.1281499 
PMID: 28121262 


81. Angiogenesis. 2017 Jan 24. doi: 10.1007/s10456-016-9538-1. [Epub ahead of print]

A somatic GNA11 mutation is associated with extremity capillary malformation and 
overgrowth.

Couto JA(1), Ayturk UM(2), Konczyk DJ(1), Goss JA(1), Huang AY(2), Hann S(2),
Reeve JL(3), Liang MG(4), Bischoff J(5), Warman ML(2,)(6), Greene AK(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plastic and Oral Surgery, Boston Children's Hospital, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. (2)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Boston
Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. (3)Department of
Dermatology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. (4)Department of
Dermatology, Boston Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(5)Department of Surgery, Vascular Biology Program, Boston Children's Hospital,
Boston, MA, USA. (6)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Boston Children's Hospital, 
Boston, MA, USA. (7)Department of Plastic and Oral Surgery, Boston Children's
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
arin.greene@childrens.harvard.edu.

BACKGROUND: Capillary malformation is a cutaneous vascular anomaly that is
present at birth, darkens over time, and can cause overgrowth of tissues beneath 
the stain. The lesion is caused by a somatic activating mutation in GNAQ. In a
previous study, we were unable to identify a GNAQ mutation in patients with a
capillary malformation involving an overgrown lower extremity. We hypothesized
that mutations in GNA11 or GNA14, genes closely related to GNAQ, also may cause
capillary malformations.
METHODS: Human capillary malformation tissue obtained from 8 patients that had
tested negative for GNAQ mutations were studied. Lesions involved an extremity
(n = 7) or trunk (n = 1). Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) was used to detect GNA11 or
GNA14 mutant cells (p.Arg183) in the specimens. Single molecule molecular
inversion probe sequencing (smMIP-seq) was performed to search for other
mutations in GNA11. Mutations were validated by subcloning and sequencing
amplimers.
RESULTS: We found a somatic GNA11 missense mutation (c.547C > T; p.Arg183Cys) in 
3 patients with a diffuse capillary malformation of an extremity. Mutant allelic 
frequencies ranged from 0.3 to 5.0%. GNA11 or GNA14 mutations were not found in 5
affected tissues or in unaffected tissues (white blood cell DNA).
CONCULSIONS: GNA11 mutations are associated with extremity capillary
malformations causing overgrowth. Pharmacotherapy that affects GNA11 signaling
may prevent the progression of capillary malformations.

DOI: 10.1007/s10456-016-9538-1 
PMID: 28120216 


82. Anal Chem. 2017 Feb 7;89(3):1642-1649. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.6b03746. Epub
2017 Jan 20.

Accurate Digital Polymerase Chain Reaction Quantification of Challenging Samples 
Applying Inhibitor-Tolerant DNA Polymerases.

Sidstedt M(1,)(2), Romsos EL(3), Hedell R(2,)(4), Ansell R(2,)(5), Steffen CR(3),
Vallone PM(3), Rådström P(1), Hedman J(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Applied Microbiology, Department of Chemistry, Lund University , SE-221 00
Lund, Sweden. (2)Swedish National Forensic Centre , SE-581 94 Linköping, Sweden. 
(3)Materials Measurement Laboratory, National Institute of Standards and
Technology , Gaithersburg, Maryland 20899-8314, United States. (4)Department of
Mathematical Sciences, Chalmers University of Technology and University of
Gothenburg , SE-412 96 Gothenburg, Sweden. (5)Department of Physics, Chemistry
and Biology, IFM, Linköping University , SE-581 83 Linköping, Sweden.

Digital PCR (dPCR) enables absolute quantification of nucleic acids by
partitioning of the sample into hundreds or thousands of minute reactions. By
assuming a Poisson distribution for the number of DNA fragments present in each
chamber, the DNA concentration is determined without the need for a standard
curve. However, when analyzing nucleic acids from complex matrixes such as soil
and blood, the dPCR quantification can be biased due to the presence of
inhibitory compounds. In this study, we evaluated the impact of varying the DNA
polymerase in chamber-based dPCR for both pure and impure samples using the
common PCR inhibitor humic acid (HA) as a model. We compared the TaqMan Universal
PCR Master Mix with two alternative DNA polymerases: ExTaq HS and Immolase. By
using Bayesian modeling, we show that there is no difference among the tested DNA
polymerases in terms of accuracy of absolute quantification for pure template
samples, i.e., without HA present. For samples containing HA, there were great
differences in performance: the TaqMan Universal PCR Master Mix failed to
correctly quantify DNA with more than 13 pg/nL HA, whereas Immolase (1 U) could
handle up to 375 pg/nL HA. Furthermore, we found that BSA had a moderate positive
effect for the TaqMan Universal PCR Master Mix, enabling accurate quantification 
for 25 pg/nL HA. Increasing the amount of DNA polymerase from 1 to 5 U had a
strong effect for ExTaq HS, elevating HA-tolerance four times. We also show that 
the average Cq values of positive reactions may be used as a measure of
inhibition effects, e.g., to determine whether or not a dPCR quantification
result is reliable. The statistical models developed to objectively analyze the
data may also be applied in quality control. We conclude that the choice of DNA
polymerase in dPCR is crucial for the accuracy of quantification when analyzing
challenging samples.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.6b03746 
PMID: 28118703 


83. Br J Cancer. 2017 Feb 14;116(4):515-523. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2016.450. Epub 2017 Jan
24.

Comparative mutational landscape analysis of patient-derived tumour xenografts.

Brait M(1), Izumchenko E(1), Kagohara LT(1), Long S(2), Wysocki PT(1), Faherty
B(1), Fertig EJ(3), Khor TO(4), Bruckheimer E(4), Baia G(4), Ciznadija D(4),
Sloma I(4), Ben-Zvi I(4), Paz K(4), Sidransky D(1,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otolaryngology and Head and Neck Surgery, Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21231, USA. (2)AIDS and Cancer Virus
Program, Leidos Biomedical Research, Inc., Frederick National Laboratory for
Cancer Research, Frederick, MD 21702, USA. (3)Department of Oncology, Johns
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21231, USA. (4)Champions
Oncology, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

BACKGROUND: Screening of patients for cancer-driving mutations is now used for
cancer prognosis, remission scoring and treatment selection. Although recently
emerged targeted next-generation sequencing-based approaches offer promising
diagnostic capabilities, there are still limitations. There is a pressing
clinical need for a well-validated, rapid, cost-effective mutation profiling
system in patient specimens. Given their speed and cost-effectiveness,
quantitative PCR mutation detection techniques are well suited for the clinical
environment. The qBiomarker mutation PCR array has high sensitivity and shorter
turnaround times compared with other methods. However, a direct comparison with
existing viable alternatives are required to assess its true potential and
limitations.
METHODS: In this study, we evaluated a panel of 117 patient-derived tumour
xenografts by the qBiomarker array and compared with other methods for mutation
detection, including Ion AmpliSeq sequencing, whole-exome sequencing and droplet 
digital PCR.
RESULTS: Our broad analysis demonstrates that the qBiomarker's performance is on 
par with that of other labour-intensive and expensive methods of cancer mutation 
detection of frequently altered cancer-associated genes, and provides a
foundation for supporting its consideration as an option for molecular
diagnostics.
CONCLUSIONS: This large-scale direct comparison and validation of currently
available mutation detection approaches is extremely relevant for the current
scenario of precision medicine and will lead to informed choice of screening
methodologies, especially in lower budget conditions or time frame limitations.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.2016.450 
PMCID: PMC5318980 [Available on 2018-02-14]
PMID: 28118322 


84. J AOAC Int. 2017 Mar 1;100(2):492-498. doi: 10.5740/jaoacint.16-0284. Epub 2016
Dec 22.

Effect of Source of DNA on the Quantitative Analysis of Genetically Engineered
Traits Using Digital PCR and Real-Time PCR.

Demeke T(1), Malabanan J(2), Holigroski M(1), Eng M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Canadian Grain Commission, Grain Research Laboratory, Winnipeg, MB, Canada.
(2)Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, Morden, MB, Canada.

Seven commercially available DNA extraction kits were compared with a
cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB) method to determine the suitability of the 
extracted DNA for RainDrop digital PCR (dPCR) and real-time PCR (RT-PCR)
quantification of OXY235 canola, FP967 flax, and DP305423 soybean (spiked at the 
0.1% level). For the kits, the highest amount of DNA extracted from a 0.2 g
sample was obtained using OmniPrep for Plant for flax and DNeasy mericon Food for
canola and soybean. For canola, DNA extracted with the Fast ID Genomic DNA
Extraction Kit, FastDNA Spin Kit, GM Quicker 2, NucleoSpin Food, and DNeasy
mericon Food was suitable for dPCR and RT-PCR. For flax, DNA extracted with Fast 
ID, FastDNA Spin Kit, OmniPrep for Plant, and NucleoSpin Food was suitable for
RT-PCR. However, only Fast ID yielded DNA suitable for dPCR. For soybean, DNA
extracted with five and six of the seven DNA extraction kits was suitable for
dPCR and RT-PCR, respectively. Overall, Fast ID provided reliable results
regardless of species or analysis method used. Canola, flax, and soybean DNA
extracted with the CTAB method and then purified were suitable for both dPCR and 
RT-PCR. This is the first report showing the effect of different DNA extraction
methods on the absolute quantification of genetically engineered traits using
dPCR.

DOI: 10.5740/jaoacint.16-0284 
PMID: 28118137 


85. PLoS One. 2017 Jan 23;12(1):e0170628. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0170628.
eCollection 2017.

A Comparative Study of Serum Exosome Isolation Using Differential
Ultracentrifugation and Three Commercial Reagents.

Helwa I(1), Cai J(1), Drewry MD(1), Zimmerman A(1), Dinkins MB(2), Khaled ML(1), 
Seremwe M(1), Dismuke WM(3), Bieberich E(2), Stamer WD(3,)(4), Hamrick MW(1), Liu
Y(1,)(5,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular Biology and Anatomy, Augusta University, Augusta,
Georgia, United States of America. (2)Department of Neuroscience and Regenerative
Medicine, Augusta University, Augusta, Georgia, United States of America.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, United
States of America. (4)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Duke University,
Durham, North Carolina, United States of America. (5)James & Jean Culver Vision
Discovery Institute, Augusta University, Augusta, Georgia, United States of
America. (6)Center for Biotechnology and Genomic Medicine, Augusta University,
Augusta, Georgia, United States of America.

Exosomes play a role in cell-to-cell signaling and serve as possible biomarkers. 
Isolating exosomes with reliable quality and substantial concentration is a major
challenge. Our purpose is to compare the exosomes extracted by three different
exosome isolation kits (miRCURY, ExoQuick, and Invitrogen Total Exosome Isolation
Reagent) and differential ultracentrifugation (UC) using six different volumes of
a non-cancerous human serum (5 ml, 1 ml, 500 μl, 250 μl, 100 μl, and 50 μl) and
three different volumes (1 ml, 500 μl and 100 μl) of six individual commercial
serum samples collected from human donors. The smaller starting volumes (100 μl
and 50 μl) are used to mimic conditions of limited availability of heterogeneous 
biological samples. The isolated exosomes were characterized based upon size,
quantity, zeta potential, CD63 and CD9 protein expression, and exosomal RNA
(exRNA) quality and quantity using several complementary methods: nanoparticle
tracking analysis (NTA) with ZetaView, western blot, transmission electron
microscopy (TEM), the Agilent Bioanalyzer system, and droplet digital PCR
(ddPCR). Our NTA results showed that all isolation techniques produced exosomes
within the expected size range (40-150 nm). The three kits, though, produced a
significantly higher yield (80-300 fold) of exosomes as compared to UC for all
serum volumes, except 5 mL. We also found that exosomes isolated by the different
techniques and serum volumes had similar zeta potentials to previous studies.
Western blot analysis and TEM immunogold labelling confirmed the expression of
two common exosomal protein markers, CD63 and CD9, in samples isolated by all
techniques. All exosome isolations yielded high quality exRNA, containing mostly 
small RNA with a peak between 25 and 200 nucleotides in size. ddPCR results
indicated that exosomes isolated from similar serum volumes but different
isolation techniques rendered similar concentrations of two selected exRNA:
hsa-miR-16 and hsa-miR-451. In summary, the three commercial exosome isolation
kits are viable alternatives to UC, even when limited amounts of biological
samples are available.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0170628 
PMCID: PMC5256994
PMID: 28114422 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


86. Cancer Res Treat. 2017 Jan 19. doi: 10.4143/crt.2016.495. [Epub ahead of print]

Induction Chemotherapy with Gemcitabine and Cisplatin Followed by Simultaneous
Integrated Boost-Intensity Modulated Radiotherapy with Concurrent Gemcitabine for
Locally Advanced Unresectable Pancreatic Cancer: Results from a Feasibility
Study.

Woo SM(1), Kim MK(2), Joo J(3), Yoon KA(4), Park B(3), Park SJ(1), Han SS(1), Lee
JH(1), Hong EK(1), Kim YH(5), Moon H(6), Kong SY(2,)(7), Kim TH(1), Lee WJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Liver Cancer, National Cancer Center, Goyang, Korea. (2)Department 
of System Cancer Science, Graduate School of Cancer Science and Policy, National 
Cancer Center, Goyang, Korea. (3)Biometric Research Branch, Division of Cancer
Epidemiology and Prevention, National Cancer Center, Goyang, Korea. (4)College of
Veterinary Medicine, Konkuk University, Seoul, Korea. (5)Molecular Imaging and
Therapy Branch, Research Institute National Cancer Center, Goyang, Korea.
(6)Emergency Department, National Cancer Center, Korea. (7)Department of
Laboratory Medicine, Center for Diagnostic Oncology, National Cancer Center,
Goyang, Korea.

Purpose: This study assessed the feasibility and compliance of induction
chemotherapy with gemcitabine and cisplatin followed by simultaneous integrated
boost-intensity modulated radiotherapy (SIB-IMRT) with concurrent gemcitabine in 
patients with locally advanced unresectable pancreatic cancer (LAPC).
Materials and Methods: In this trial, patients received induction chemotherapy
consisting of gemcitabine (1000 mg/m2) and cisplatin (25 mg/m2) on days 1, 8 and 
15 of each treatment cycle. Patients were subsequently treated with gemcitabine
(300 mg/m2/week) during SIB-IMRT. The patients received total doses of 55 and 44 
Gy in 22 fractions to planning target volume 1 and 2, respectively. As an
ancillary study, digital PCR was performed to screen for the seven most common
mutations in codons 12 and 13 of the KRAS oncogene of circulating cell free DNA
(cfDNA).
Results: Forty-four patients were enrolled between 2012 and 2015. Of these, 33
(75%) completed the treatment. The most common toxicities during induction
chemotherapy were grades 3 and 4 neutropenia (18.2%), grade 3 nausea (6.8%) and
vomiting (6.8%). The most common toxicities during SIB-IMRT were grade 3
neutropenia (24.2%) and grade 3 anemia (12.1%). Ten (23%) patients underwent a
curative resection after therapy. Median overall survival was significantly
longer in patients who underwent curative resection (16.8 vs. 11 months, P <
0.01). The median cfDNA concentration was significantly lower after treatment
(108.5 vs. 18.4 ng/mL, P < 0.0001).
Conclusion: Induction chemotherapy with gemcitabine and cisplatin followed by
concurrent SIB-IMRT was well tolerated and active.

DOI: 10.4143/crt.2016.495 
PMID: 28111423 


87. PLoS One. 2017 Jan 20;12(1):e0170521. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0170521.
eCollection 2017.

A Circulating microRNA Signature Predicts Age-Based Development of Lymphoma.

Beheshti A(1), Vanderburg C(2), McDonald JT(3), Ramkumar C(4), Kadungure T(4),
Zhang H(4), Gartenhaus RB(5), Evens AM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Molecular Oncology Research Institute, Tufts 
Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America. (2)Harvard
NeuroDiscovery Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts,
United States of America. (3)Cancer Research Center, Hampton University, Hampton,
Virginia, United States of America. (4)Department of Cell Biology and
Development, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester,
Massachusetts, United States of America. (5)Marlene & Stewart Greenebaum Cancer
Center, Department of Medicine, University of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland,
United States of America.

Extensive epidemiological data have demonstrated an exponential rise in the
incidence of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) that is associated with increasing age.
The molecular etiology of this remains largely unknown, which impacts the
effectiveness of treatment for patients. We proposed that age-dependent
circulating microRNA (miRNA) signatures in the host influence diffuse large B
cell lymphoma (DLBCL) development. Our objective was to examine tumor development
in an age-based DLBCL system using an inventive systems biology approach. We
harnessed a novel murine model of spontaneous DLBCL initiation (Smurf2-deficient)
at two age groups: 3 and 15 months old. All Smurf2-deficient mice develop visible
DLBCL tumor starting at 15 months of age. Total miRNA was isolated from serum,
bone marrow and spleen and were collected for all age groups for Smurf2-deficient
mice and age-matched wild-type C57BL/6 mice. Using systems biology techniques, we
identified a list of 10 circulating miRNAs being regulated in both the spleen and
bone marrow that were present in DLBCL forming mice starting at 3 months of age
that were not present in the control mice. Furthermore, this miRNA signature was 
found to occur circulating in the blood and it strongly impacted JUN and MYC
oncogenic signaling. In addition, quantification of the miRNA signature was
performed via Droplet Digital PCR technology. It was discovered that a key miRNA 
signature circulates throughout a host prior to the formation of a tumor starting
at 3 months old, which becomes further modulated by age and yielded calculation
of a 'carcinogenic risk score'. This novel age-based circulating miRNA signature 
may potentially be leveraged as a DLBCL risk profile at a young age to predict
future lymphoma development or disease progression as well as for potential
innovative miRNA-based targeted therapeutic strategies in lymphoma.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0170521 
PMCID: PMC5249061
PMID: 28107482 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


88. Mol Oncol. 2017 Feb;11(2):208-219. doi: 10.1002/1878-0261.12023. Epub 2017 Jan
20.

Blood-based detection of RAS mutations to guide anti-EGFR therapy in colorectal
cancer patients: concordance of results from circulating tumor DNA and
tissue-based RAS testing.

Schmiegel W(1), Scott RJ(2,)(3,)(4), Dooley S(2), Lewis W(2), Meldrum CJ(2),
Pockney P(4,)(5), Draganic B(4,)(5), Smith S(4,)(5), Hewitt C(6), Philimore H(6),
Lucas A(6), Shi E(6), Namdarian K(6), Chan T(6), Acosta D(6), Ping-Chang S(6),
Tannapfel A(7), Reinacher-Schick A(8), Uhl W(9), Teschendorf C(10), Wolters
H(11), Stern J(11), Viebahn R(12), Friess H(13), Janssen KP(13), Nitsche U(13),
Slotta-Huspenina J(14), Pohl M(1), Vangala D(1,)(15), Baraniskin A(1),
Dockhorn-Dworniczak B(16,)(17), Hegewisch-Becker S(18), Ronga P(19), Edelstein
DL(20), Jones FS(20), Hahn S(15), Fox SB(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Medical University of Bochum Hospital,
Germany. (2)Pathology North, John Hunter Hospital, New Lambton Heights,
Australia. (3)Hunter Medical Research Institute, Newcastle, Australia. (4)The
Faculty of Medicine and Health, University of Newcastle, Australia. (5)Division
of Surgery, John Hunter Hospital, New Lambton Heights, Australia. (6)Peter
MacCallum Cancer Centre and the University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia.
(7)Institute of Pathology, University of Bochum Hospital, Germany. (8)Division of
Hematolgy and Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, St. Josef Hospital,
Ruhr-University Bochum, Germany. (9)Department of Visceral and General Surgery,
St. Josef Hospital, Ruhr-University Bochum, Germany. (10)Department of Internal
Medicine, St. Josefs-Hospital, Dortmund, Germany. (11)Department of Visceral and 
General Surgery, St. Josefs-Hospital, Dortmund, Germany. (12)Department of
Visceral and General Surgery, Medical University of Bochum Hospital, Germany.
(13)Department of Surgery, University Hospital Klinikum rechts der Isar,
Technical University Munich, Germany. (14)Department of Pathology, Technical
University Munich, Germany. (15)Department of Molecular GI Oncology, University
of Bochum Hospital, Germany. (16)Centre of Pathology, Kempten, Germany. (17)MVZ
Humangenetics and Laboratory Medicine, Martinsried, Germany. (18)Centre of
Haemato-Oncology, Hamburg, Germany. (19)Global Medical Affairs Oncology, Merck
KGAa, Darmstadt, Germany. (20)Medical Scientific Affairs, Sysmex Inostics Inc.,
Mundelein, IL, USA.

An accurate blood-based RAS mutation assay to determine eligibility of metastatic
colorectal cancer (mCRC) patients for anti-EGFR therapy would benefit clinical
practice by better informing decisions to administer treatment independent of
tissue availability. The objective of this study was to determine the level of
concordance between plasma and tissue RAS mutation status in patients with mCRC
to gauge whether blood-based RAS mutation testing is a viable alternative to
standard-of-care RAS tumor testing. RAS testing was performed on plasma samples
from newly diagnosed metastatic patients, or from recurrent mCRC patients using
the highly sensitive digital PCR technology, BEAMing (beads, emulsions,
amplification, and magnetics), and compared with DNA sequencing data of
respective FFPE (formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded) tumor samples. Discordant
tissue RAS results were re-examined by BEAMing, if possible. The prevalence of
RAS mutations detected in plasma (51%) vs. tumor (53%) was similar, in accord
with the known prevalence of RAS mutations observed in mCRC patient populations. 
The positive agreement between plasma and tumor RAS results was 90.4% (47/52),
the negative agreement was 93.5% (43/46), and the overall agreement (concordance)
was 91.8% (90/98). The high concordance of plasma and tissue results demonstrates
that blood-based RAS mutation testing is a viable alternative to tissue-based RAS
testing.

© 2016 The Authors. Published by FEBS Press and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/1878-0261.12023 
PMID: 28106345 


89. Anal Chem. 2017 Jan 3;89(1):745-750. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.6b03328. Epub 2016
Dec 19.

Absolute Quantification of H5-Subtype Avian Influenza Viruses Using Droplet
Digital Loop-Mediated Isothermal Amplification.

Hu Y(1), Xu P(2), Luo J(1), He H(1), Du W(2).

Author information: 
(1)National Research Center for Wildlife Born Diseases, Institute of Zoology,
Chinese Academy of Sciences , Beijing 100101, China. (2)State Key Laboratory of
Microbial Resources, Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences ,
Beijing 100101, China.

Human infection with avian influenza A H5N1 viruses can cause severe diseases
with high mortality rate and continues to pose a significant threat to global
public health. Rapid diagnosis is needed for identifying the types of influenza
viruses for making timely treatment decisions. Here, we demonstrate absolute
quantification of H5-subtype influenza viruses by digital loop-mediated
isothermal amplification (dLAMP) on our recently developed cross-interface
emulsification (XiE) method. Our results show that XiE-based dLAMP is highly
specific and displays comparable sensitivity to real-time PCR (qPCR) and digital 
PCR (dPCR). Notably, dLAMP is more tolerant to inhibitory substances than PCR
methods and demonstrated similar detection efficiency to qPCR for real H5N1
samples. Therefore, it can serve as a robust and precise alternative to qPCR or
dPCR and is especially suitable for environmental and clinical samples with
hard-to-remove contaminants. We believe that our dLAMP method offers great
potential for rapid and accurate diagnosis of influenza and other infectious
diseases.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.6b03328 
PMID: 28105842 


90. Ann Oncol. 2017 Jan 18. pii: mdx004. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdx004. [Epub ahead of
print]

High Prevalence of Mutant KRAS in Circulating Exosome-derived DNA from Early
Stage Pancreatic Cancer Patients.

Allenson K(1,)(2), Castillo J(2), San Lucas FA(3,)(4), Scelo G(5), Kim DU(2),
Bernard V(2), Davis G(2), Kumar T(2), Katz M(1), Overman MJ(6), Foretova L(7),
Fabianova E(8), Holcatova I(9), Janout V(10,)(11), Meric-Bernstam F(12), Gascoyne
P(13), Wistuba I(3), Varadhachary G(6), Brennan P(5), Hanash S(14), Li D(6),
Maitra A(15,)(4), Alvarez H(2,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center, Houston, TX, USA. (2)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas MD 
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA. (3)Department of Translational
Molecular Pathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson, Cancer Center, Houston,
TX, USA. (4)Sheikh Ahmed Pancreatic Cancer Research Center, The University of
Texas MD Anderson, Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA. (5)Genetic Epidemiology
Group, International Agency for Research on Cancer, Lyon, France. (6)Department
of GI Medical Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center,
Houston, TX, USA. (7)Department of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, Masaryk
Memorial Cancer Institute, Brno, Czech Republic. (8)Regional Authority of Public 
Health in Banska Bystrica, Banska Bystrica, Slovakia. (9)Institute of Public
Health and Preventive Medicine, Charles University, 2nd Faculty of Medicine,
Prague, Czech Republic. (10)Department of Preventive Medicine, Palacky University
of Medicine, Olomouc, Czech Republic. (11)Department of Epidemiology and Public
Health, Faculty of Medicine, University of Ostrava, Ostrava, Czech Republic.
(12)Department of Investigational Cancer Therapeutics and the Institute for
Personalized Cancer Therapy, USA. (13)ContinuumDx, Houston, TX, USA.
(14)Department of Clinical Cancer Prevention, The University of Texas MD Anderson
Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA. (15)Department of Pathology, The University of
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA amaitra@mdanderson.org.

BACKGROUND: Exosomes arise from viable cancer cells and may reflect a different
biology than circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) shed from dying tissues. We
compare exosome-derived DNA (exoDNA) to cfDNA in liquid biopsies of patients with
pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patient samples were obtained between 2003 and 2010, with
clinically annotated follow up to 2015. Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) was performed
on exoDNA and cfDNA for sensitive detection of KRAS mutants at codons 12/13. A
cumulative series of 263 individuals were studied, including a discovery cohort
of 142 individuals: 68 PDAC patients of all stages; 20 PDAC patients initially
staged with localized disease, with blood drawn after resection for curative
intent; and 54 age-matched healthy controls. A validation cohort of 121
individuals (39 cancer patients and 82 healthy controls) was studied to validate 
KRAS detection rates in early-stage PDAC patients. Primary outcome was
circulating KRAS status as detected by ddPCR. Secondary outcomes were
disease-free and overall survival.
RESULTS: KRAS mutations in exoDNA, were identified in 7.4%, 66.7%, 80% and 85% of
age-matched controls, localized, locally advanced, and metastatic PDAC patients, 
respectively. Comparatively, mutant KRAS cfDNA was detected in 14.8%, 45.5%,
30.8%, and 57.9% of these individuals. Higher exoKRAS MAFs were associated with
decreased disease-free survival in patients with localized disease. In the
validation cohort, mutant KRAS exoDNA was detected in 43.6% of early-stage PDAC
patients and 20% of healthy controls.
CONCLUSIONS: Exosomes are a distinct source of tumor DNA that may be
complementary to other liquid biopsy DNA sources. A higher percentage of patients
with localized PDAC exhibited detectable KRAS mutations in exoDNA than previously
reported for cfDNA. A substantial minority of healthy samples demonstrated mutant
KRAS in circulation, dictating careful consideration and application of liquid
biopsy findings, which may limit its utility as a broad cancer-screening method.

© The Author 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European
Society for Medical Oncology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdx004 
PMID: 28104621 


91. Mol Diagn Ther. 2017 Jan 18. doi: 10.1007/s40291-016-0254-8. [Epub ahead of
print]

COLD-PCR Technologies in the Area of Personalized Medicine: Methodology and
Applications.

Mauger F(1), How-Kit A(2), Tost J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Epigenetics and Environment, Centre National de Génotypage,
CEA-Institut de Génomique, Batiment G2, 2 rue Gaston Crémieux, 91000, Evry,
France. (2)Laboratory for Genomics, Fondation Jean Dausset-CEPH, 75010, Paris,
France. (3)Laboratory for Epigenetics and Environment, Centre National de
Génotypage, CEA-Institut de Génomique, Batiment G2, 2 rue Gaston Crémieux, 91000,
Evry, France. tost@cng.fr.

Somatic mutations bear great promise for use as biomarkers for personalized
medicine, but are often present only in low abundance in biological material and 
are therefore difficult to detect. Many assays for mutation analysis in
cancer-related genes (hotspots) have been developed to improve diagnosis,
prognosis, prediction of drug resistance, and monitoring of the response to
treatment. Two major approaches have been developed: mutation-specific
amplification methods and methods that enrich and detect mutations without prior 
knowledge on the exact location and identity of the mutation. CO-amplification at
Lower Denaturation temperature Polymerase Chain Reaction (COLD-PCR) methods such 
as full-, fast-, ice- (improved and complete enrichment), enhanced-ice, and
temperature-tolerant COLD-PCR make use of a critical temperature in the
polymerase chain reaction to selectively denature wild-type-mutant
heteroduplexes, allowing the enrichment of rare mutations. Mutations can
subsequently be identified using a variety of laboratory technologies such as
high-resolution melting, digital polymerase chain reaction, pyrosequencing,
Sanger sequencing, or next-generation sequencing. COLD-PCR methods are sensitive,
specific, and accurate if appropriately optimized and have a short time to
results. A large variety of clinical samples (tumor DNA, circulating cell-free
DNA, circulating cell-free fetal DNA, and circulating tumor cells) have been
studied using COLD-PCR in many different applications including the detection of 
genetic changes in cancer and infectious diseases, non-invasive prenatal
diagnosis, detection of microorganisms, or DNA methylation analysis. In this
review, we describe in detail the different COLD-PCR approaches, highlighting
their specificities, advantages, and inconveniences and demonstrating their use
in different fields of biological and biomedical research.

DOI: 10.1007/s40291-016-0254-8 
PMID: 28101802 


92. Clin Chem. 2017 Mar;63(3):742-750. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2016.264838. Epub 2017
Jan 18.

Probe-Free Digital PCR Quantitative Methodology to Measure Donor-Specific
Cell-Free DNA after Solid-Organ Transplantation.

Goh SK(1,)(2), Muralidharan V(2), Christophi C(2), Do H(1,)(3,)(4), Dobrovic
A(5,)(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Genomics and Epigenomics Laboratory, Olivia Newton-John Cancer
Research Institute, Heidelberg, Victoria, Australia. (2)Department of Surgery,
University of Melbourne, Austin Health, Heidelberg, Victoria, Australia.
(3)School of Cancer Medicine, La Trobe University, Bundoora, Victoria, Australia.
(4)Department of Pathology, University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria,
Australia. (5)Translational Genomics and Epigenomics Laboratory, Olivia
Newton-John Cancer Research Institute, Heidelberg, Victoria, Australia;
alex.dobrovic@onjcri.org.au.

BACKGROUND: Donor-specific cell-free DNA (dscfDNA) is increasingly being
considered as a noninvasive biomarker to monitor graft health and diagnose graft 
rejection after solid-organ transplantation. However, current approaches used to 
measure dscfDNA can be costly and/or laborious. A probe-free droplet digital PCR 
(ddPCR) methodology using small deletion/insertion polymorphisms (DIPs) was
developed to circumvent these limitations without compromising the quantification
of dscfDNA. This method was called PHABRE-PCR (Primer to Hybridize across an
Allelic BREakpoint-PCR). The strategic placement of one primer to hybridize
across an allelic breakpoint ensured highly specific PCR amplification, which
then enabled the absolute quantification of donor-specific alleles by probe-free 
ddPCR.
METHODS: dscfDNA was serially measured in 3 liver transplant recipients. Donor
and recipient genomic DNA was first genotyped against a panel of DIPs to identify
donor-specific alleles. Alleles that differentiated donor-specific from
recipient-specific DNA were then selected to quantify dscfDNA in the recipient
plasma.
RESULTS: Lack of amplification of nontargeted alleles confirmed that PHABRE-PCR
was highly specific. In recipients who underwent transplantation, dscfDNA was
increased at day 3, but decreased and plateaued at a low concentration by 2 weeks
in the 2 recipients who did not develop any complications. In the third
transplant recipient, a marked increase of dscfDNA coincided with an episode of
graft rejection.
CONCLUSIONS: PHABRE-PCR was able to quantify dscfDNA with high analytical
specificity and sensitivity. The implementation of a DIP-based approach permits
surveillance of dscfDNA as a potential measure of graft health after solid-organ 
transplantation.

© 2016 American Association for Clinical Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2016.264838 
PMID: 28100495 


93. Clin Chem. 2017 Mar;63(3):761-769. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2016.265512. Epub 2017
Jan 18.

Quantification of BK Virus Standards by Quantitative Real-Time PCR and Droplet
Digital PCR Is Confounded by Multiple Virus Populations in the WHO BKV
International Standard.

Bateman AC(1), Greninger AL(2), Atienza EE(2), Limaye AP(3), Jerome KR(2,)(4),
Cook L(2,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine and batemana@uw.edu. (2)Department of
Laboratory Medicine and. (3)Division of Allergy and Infectious Diseases,
University of Washington, Seattle, WA. (4)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center,
Seattle, WA.

BACKGROUND: The WHO recently released a BK virus (BKV) international standard.
This study evaluated the WHO international standard and commercially available
BKV standards by quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) and droplet digital PCR
(ddPCR).
METHODS: WHO, Exact Diagnostics, Acrometrix, and Zeptometrix BKV standards were
tested by qPCR and ddPCR. Two preparations of NIST BKV clones were also tested.
Nucleic acid was extracted with the Roche MP96 and MPLC, followed by
quantification in duplicate. To resolve discrepancies, we sequenced the WHO and
NIST materials.
RESULTS: Manufacturers' expected copies/mL were close to WHO IU/mL: linear
regression of qPCR data revealed 1.12 Exact copies/IU, 0.76 Acrometrix copies/IU,
and 0.70 Zeptometrix copies/IU. For ddPCR, similar concentrations were measured
when either the VP1 region or the T region was targeted, and concentrations were 
almost 2-fold higher when both regions were targeted simultaneously. ddPCR
results for the VP1 and T regions were similar for all commercial standards, but 
targeting the T region of the WHO standard led to a 4-fold lower result than the 
VP1 region. Next-generation sequencing revealed no primer or probe mismatches.
However, large differences in coverage across the WHO standard and junctional
reads were observed, indicating subpopulations of the WHO standard with deletions
in the T region.
CONCLUSIONS: BKV standards showed concordance among providers, but the WHO
standard contains subpopulations of viruses with various deletions in the T
region. PCR results will vary depending on which region of the WHO standard is
targeted.

© 2016 American Association for Clinical Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2016.265512 
PMID: 28100494 


94. Clin Chem Lab Med. 2017 Jan 18. pii:
/j/cclm.ahead-of-print/cclm-2016-0900/cclm-2016-0900.xml. doi:
10.1515/cclm-2016-0900. [Epub ahead of print]

Early mixed hematopoietic chimerism detection by digital droplet PCR in patients 
undergoing gender-mismatched hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

Waterhouse M, Pfeifer D, Follo M, Duyster J, Schäfer H, Bertz H, Finke J.

BACKGROUND: Clinical decision making after allogeneic stem cell transplantation
(HSCT) is partially based on hematopoietic chimerism analysis. Polymerase chain
reaction amplification of polymorphic short tandem repeats (STR-PCR) is currently
considered the gold standard for chimerism surveillance after transplantation.
Nevertheless, this method has shown several limitations. Emerging technologies
such as digital PCR (dPCR) has been applied to detect hematopoietic chimerism.
Despite previous reports, the clinical usefulness of dPCR is unclear because the 
studies were performed in limited patient populations with short follow-ups.
METHODS: In order to compare hematopoietic chimerism detection time and rate, we 
analyzed 591 samples from 155 patients undergoing gender-mismatched HSCT using
STR-PCR and dPCR. We also established the correlation between both methods in
artificial DNA mixtures prepared in known proportions and in clinical samples.
RESULTS: Depending on the artificial DNA mixture analyzed the correlation
coefficient between both methods was 0.9946 and 0.9732. The limit of detection
for dPCR was 0.01%. Of 157 samples with donor and recipient DNA, mixed chimerism 
(MC) was detected solely by dPCR in 66 samples. Within the group of patients
relapsing after HSCT (n=32) MC was detected earlier in 15 of these patients with 
dPCR in comparison with STR-PCR. The mean time from MC detection to relapse was
155 days (range: 13-385 days) and 65 days (range: 0-203 days) for dPCR and
STR-PCR, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: dPCR is a sensitive and accurate method for the quantification of
hematopoietic chimerism allowing earlier MC detection compared to STR-PCR.

DOI: 10.1515/cclm-2016-0900 
PMID: 28099121 


95. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2017 Jan 31;114(5):1123-1128. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1617032114. Epub 2017 Jan 17.

An RNA-based signature enables high specificity detection of circulating tumor
cells in hepatocellular carcinoma.

Kalinich M(1), Bhan I(1,)(2), Kwan TT(1), Miyamoto DT(1,)(3), Javaid S(1),
LiCausi JA(1), Milner JD(1), Hong X(1), Goyal L(1,)(4), Sil S(1), Choz M(1), Ho
U(1), Kapur R(5), Muzikansky A(1,)(6), Zhang H(7), Weitz DA(7), Sequist
LV(1,)(4), Ryan DP(1,)(4), Chung RT(2), Zhu AX(1,)(4), Isselbacher KJ(8,)(2),
Ting DT(1,)(4), Toner M(5,)(9), Maheswaran S(8,)(9), Haber DA(8,)(4,)(10).

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center, Harvard Medical School,
Charlestown, MA 02129. (2)Division of Gastroenterology, Massachusetts General
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02114. (3)Department of Radiation
Oncology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA
02114. (4)Division of Hematology Oncology, Massachusetts General Hospital,
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02114. (5)Center for Bioengineering in
Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School and Shriners 
Hospital for Children, Boston, MA 02114. (6)Division of Biostatistics,
Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02114.
(7)Department of Physics, School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Harvard
University, Cambridge, MA 02138. (8)Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center,
Harvard Medical School, Charlestown, MA 02129; dhaber@mgh.harvard.edu
maheswaran@helix.mgh.harvard.edu kisselbacher@mgh.harvard.edu. (9)Department of
Surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA
02114. (10)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, MD 20815.

Circulating tumor cells (CTCs) are shed into the bloodstream by invasive cancers,
but the difficulty inherent in identifying these rare cells by microscopy has
precluded their routine use in monitoring or screening for cancer. We recently
described a high-throughput microfluidic CTC-iChip, which efficiently depletes
hematopoietic cells from blood specimens and enriches for CTCs with
well-preserved RNA. Application of RNA-based digital PCR to detect CTC-derived
signatures may thus enable highly accurate tissue lineage-based cancer detection 
in blood specimens. As proof of principle, we examined hepatocellular carcinoma
(HCC), a cancer that is derived from liver cells bearing a unique gene expression
profile. After identifying a digital signature of 10 liver-specific transcripts, 
we used a cross-validated logistic regression model to identify the presence of
HCC-derived CTCs in nine of 16 (56%) untreated patients with HCC versus one of 31
(3%) patients with nonmalignant liver disease at risk for developing HCC (P <
0.0001). Positive CTC scores declined in treated patients: Nine of 32 (28%)
patients receiving therapy and only one of 15 (7%) patients who had undergone
curative-intent ablation, surgery, or liver transplantation were positive.
RNA-based digital CTC scoring was not correlated with the standard HCC serum
protein marker alpha fetoprotein (P = 0.57). Modeling the sequential use of these
two orthogonal markers for liver cancer screening in patients with high-risk
cirrhosis generates positive and negative predictive values of 80% and 86%,
respectively. Thus, digital RNA quantitation constitutes a sensitive and specific
CTC readout, enabling high-throughput clinical applications, such as noninvasive 
screening for HCC in populations where viral hepatitis and cirrhosis are
prevalent.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1617032114 
PMCID: PMC5293050
PMID: 28096363 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


96. Pol J Vet Sci. 2016 Dec 1;19(4):731-736. doi: 10.1515/pjvs-2016-0092.

Prevalence of Bovine herpesvirus type 4 in aborting dairy cows.

Cvetojević Đ, Savić B, Milićević V, Kureljušić B, Jezdimirović N, Jakić-Dimić D, 
Pavlović M, Spalević L.

Bovine herpesvirus type 4 (BHV-4) is related to many different conditions:
infertility, postpartal metritis, vulvovaginitis, mastitis, encephalitis, calf
pneumonia, keratoconjunctivitis, cutaneous lesions, digital dermatitis and
abortion. In this study a retrospective PCR examination of 100 extracted DNA
samples from aborting cows was performed in order to determine: prevalence of
BHV-4 in abortive cattle, whether coinfections BHV-4 with other abortifacient
pathogens are present in the same sample and to determine the month of gestation 
when BHV-4 associated abortions were detected. Out of 100 examined samples, the
BHV-4 genome was detected in 21 samples (21%). In two samples we detected
coinfection of BHV-4 with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and in one with
Neospora caninum. Most of the BHV-4-associated abortions were detected during the
seventh month of gestation. It was concluded that an active BHV-4 infection was
present among cows that aborted on the farms examined. The high prevalence of the
BHV-4 genome in abortion material suggests that this virus may have cause the
abortions. Further studies and examinations are needed to establish causative
connection between presence of BHV-4 and abortion.

DOI: 10.1515/pjvs-2016-0092 
PMID: 28092611  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Cell Mol Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2016 May 26;2(5):663-675.e2. doi:
10.1016/j.jcmgh.2016.05.013. eCollection 2016.

THBS2 Is a Candidate Modifier of Liver Disease Severity in Alagille Syndrome.

Tsai EA(1), Gilbert MA(2), Grochowski CM(2), Underkoffler LA(2), Meng H(3), Zhang
X(3), Wang MM(4), Shitaye H(5), Hankenson KD(6), Piccoli D(7), Lin H(7), Kamath
BM(8), Devoto M(9), Spinner NB(2), Loomes KM(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Children's Hospital of
Philadelphia, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Genomics
and Computational Biology Graduate Group, Perelman School of Medicine, University
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. (2)Department of Pathology and
Laboratory Medicine, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. (3)Department of Neurology, University 
of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan. (4)Department of Neurology, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan; Department of Physiology, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, Michigan; VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System, Ann Arbor, Michigan.
(5)Medical Scientist Training Program, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
Michigan. (6)Department of Physiology, Department of Small Animal Clinical
Sciences, Colleges of Natural Science, Osteopathic Medicine, and Veterinary
Medicine, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan; Department of
Orthopaedic Surgery, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. (7)Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology,
Hepatology, and Nutrition, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. (8)Division of Gastroenterology,
Hepatology, and Nutrition, Hospital for Sick Children, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Canada. (9)Division of Genetics, Department of Pediatrics, Children's
Hospital of Philadelphia, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania;
Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Perelman School of Medicine,
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Department of Molecular
Medicine, University La Sapienza, Rome, Italy.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Alagille syndrome is an autosomal-dominant, multisystem
disorder caused primarily by mutations in JAG1, resulting in bile duct paucity,
cholestasis, cardiac disease, and other features. Liver disease severity in
Alagille syndrome is highly variable, however, factors influencing the hepatic
phenotype are unknown. We hypothesized that genetic modifiers may contribute to
the variable expressivity of this disorder.
METHODS: We performed a genome-wide association study in a cohort of Caucasian
subjects with known pathogenic JAG1 mutations, comparing patients with mild vs
severe liver disease, followed by functional characterization of a candidate
locus.
RESULTS: We identified a locus that reached suggestive genome-level significance 
upstream of the thrombospondin 2 (THBS2) gene. THBS2 codes for a secreted
matricellular protein that regulates cell proliferation, apoptosis, and
angiogenesis, and has been shown to affect Notch signaling. By using a reporter
mouse line, we detected thrombospondin 2 expression in bile ducts and periportal 
regions of the mouse liver. Examination of Thbs2-null mouse livers showed
increased microvessels in the portal regions of adult mice. We also showed that
thrombospondin 2 interacts with NOTCH1 and NOTCH2 and can inhibit JAG1-NOTCH2
interactions.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the genome-wide association study results, thrombospondin 2
localization within bile ducts, and demonstration of interactions of
thrombospondin 2 with JAG1 and NOTCH2, we propose that changes in thrombospondin 
2 expression may further perturb JAG1-NOTCH2 signaling in patients harboring a
JAG1 mutation and lead to a more severe liver phenotype. These results implicate 
THBS2 as a plausible candidate genetic modifier of liver disease severity in
Alagille syndrome.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcmgh.2016.05.013 
PMCID: PMC5042888
PMID: 28090565 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors disclose no conflicts.


98. Neurobiol Aging. 2016 Dec 22. pii: S0197-4580(16)30315-3. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2016.12.009. [Epub ahead of print]

Cerebrospinal fluid mitochondrial DNA in the Alzheimer's disease continuum.

Cervera-Carles L(1), Alcolea D(1), Estanga A(2), Ecay-Torres M(2), Izagirre A(2),
Clerigué M(2), García-Sebastián M(2), Villanúa J(3), Escalas C(4), Blesa R(1),
Martínez-Lage P(5), Lleó A(1), Fortea J(6), Clarimón J(7).

Author information: 
(1)Memory Unit, Department of Neurology, IIB Sant Pau, Hospital de la Santa Creu 
i Sant Pau, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Centro de
Investigación Biomédica en Red en Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED),
Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain. (2)Department of Neurology,
Fundación CITA-Alzhéimer Fundazioa, San Sebastián, Spain. (3)Department of
Neurology, Fundación CITA-Alzhéimer Fundazioa, San Sebastián, Spain; Donostia
Unit, Osatek SA, Donostia University Hospital, San Sebastián, Spain. (4)Memory
Unit, Department of Neurology, IIB Sant Pau, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant
Pau, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. (5)Centro de
Investigación Biomédica en Red en Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED),
Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain; Department of Neurology, Fundación 
CITA-Alzhéimer Fundazioa, San Sebastián, Spain. (6)Memory Unit, Department of
Neurology, IIB Sant Pau, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Universitat
Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red
en Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), Instituto de Salud Carlos III,
Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: jfortea@santpau.cat. (7)Memory Unit,
Department of Neurology, IIB Sant Pau, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau,
Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Centro de Investigación
Biomédica en Red en Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), Instituto de
Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: jclarimon@santpau.cat.

Low levels of cell-free mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) in the cerebrospinal fluid
(CSF) of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients have been identified and proposed as a
novel biomarker for the disease. The lack of validation studies of previous
results prompted us to replicate this finding in a comprehensive series of
patients and controls. We applied droplet digital polymerase chain reaction in
CSF specimens from 124 patients representing the AD spectrum and 140
neurologically healthy controls. The following preanalytical and analytical
parameters were evaluated: the effect of freeze-thaw cycles on mtDNA, the
linearity of mtDNA load across serial dilutions, and the mtDNA levels in the
diagnostic groups. We found a wide range of mtDNA copies, which resulted in a
high degree of overlap between groups. Although the AD group presented
significantly higher mtDNA counts, the receiver-operating characteristic analysis
disclosed an area under the curve of 0.715 to distinguish AD patients from
controls. MtDNA was highly stable with low analytical variability. In conclusion,
mtDNA levels in CSF show a high interindividual variability, with great overlap
within phenotypes and presents low sensitivity for AD.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2016.12.009 
PMID: 28089353 


99. J Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2017 Jan 14;46(1):5. doi:
10.1186/s40463-016-0177-8.

Ultrasensitive detection of oncogenic human papillomavirus in oropharyngeal
tissue swabs.

Isaac A(1), Kostiuk M(1), Zhang H(1), Lindsay C(1,)(2), Makki F(1), O'Connell
DA(1,)(2), Harris JR(1,)(3), Cote DW(1,)(4), Seikaly H(1), Biron VL(5).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Department of Surgery,
University of Alberta, 1E4.34 WMC, 8440 112 Street, Edmonton, AB, T6G 2B7,
Canada. (2), 1E4 WMC, 8440 112 Street, Edmonton, AB, T6G 2B7, Canada. (3), 1E4.29
WMC 8440 112 Street, Edmonton, AB, T6G 2A1, Canada. (4), 1E4 WMC 8440 112 Street,
Edmonton, AB, T6G 2A1, Canada. (5)Division of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck
Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of Alberta, 1E4.34 WMC, 8440 112
Street, Edmonton, AB, T6G 2B7, Canada. vbiron@ualberta.ca.

BACKGROUND: The incidence of oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (OPSCC) caused
by oncogenic human papillomavirus (HPV) is rising worldwide. HPV-OPSCC is
commonly diagnosed by RT-qPCR of HPV E6 and E7 oncoproteins or by p16
immunohistochemistry (IHC). Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) has been recently
reported as an ultra-sensitive and highly precise method of nucleic acid
quantification for biomarker analysis. To validate the use of a minimally
invasive assay for detection of oncogenic HPV based on oropharyngeal swabs using 
ddPCR. Secondary objectives were to compare the accuracy of ddPCR swabs to fresh 
tissue p16 IHC and RT-qPCR, and to compare the cost of ddPCR with p16 IHC.
METHODS: We prospectively included patients with p16(+) oral cavity/oropharyngeal
cancer (OC/OPSCC), and two control groups: p16(-) OC/OPSCC patients, and healthy 
controls undergoing tonsillectomy. All underwent an oropharyngeal swab with ddPCR
for quantitative detection of E6 and E7 mRNA. Surgical specimens had p16 IHC
performed. Agreement between ddPCR and p16 IHC was determined for patients with
p16 positive and negative OC/OPSCC as well as for healthy control patients. The
sensitivity and specificity of ddPCR of oropharyngeal swabs were calculated
against p16 IHC for OPSCC.
RESULTS: 122 patients were included: 36 patients with p16(+)OPSCC, 16 patients
with p16(-)OPSCC, 4 patients with p16(+)OCSCC, 41 patients with p16(-)OCSCC, and 
25 healthy controls. The sensitivity and specificity of ddPCR of oropharyngeal
swabs against p16 IHC were 92 and 98% respectively, using 20-50 times less RNA
than that required for conventional RT-qPCR. Overall agreement between ddPCR of
tissue swabs and p16 of tumor tissue was high at ĸ = 0.826 [0.662-0.989].
CONCLUSION: Oropharyngeal swabs analyzed by ddPCR is a quantitative, rapid, and
effective method for minimally invasive oncogenic HPV detection. This assay
represents the most sensitive and accurate mode of HPV detection in OPSCC without
a tissue biopsy in the available literature.

DOI: 10.1186/s40463-016-0177-8 
PMCID: PMC5237494
PMID: 28088212 


100. PLoS One. 2017 Jan 13;12(1):e0169846. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0169846.
eCollection 2017.

Quantification of Plasmid Copy Number with Single Colour Droplet Digital PCR.

Plotka M(1), Wozniak M(1), Kaczorowski T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Extremophiles Biology, Department of Microbiology, University of
Gdansk, Gdansk, Poland.

Bacteria can be considered as biological nanofactories that manufacture a
cornucopia of bioproducts most notably recombinant proteins. As such, they must
perfectly match with appropriate plasmid vectors to ensure successful
overexpression of target genes. Among many parameters that correlate positively
with protein productivity plasmid copy number plays pivotal role. Therefore,
development of new and more accurate methods to assess this critical parameter
will result in optimization of expression of plasmid-encoded genes. In this
study, we present a simple and highly accurate method for quantifying plasmid
copy number utilizing an EvaGreen single colour, droplet digital PCR. We
demonstrate the effectiveness of this method by examining the copy number of the 
pBR322 vector within Escherichia coli DH5α cells. The obtained results were
successfully validated by real-time PCR. However, we observed a strong dependency
of the plasmid copy number on the method chosen for isolation of the total DNA.
We found that application of silica-membrane-based columns for DNA purification
or DNA isolation with use of bead-beating, a mechanical cell disruption lead to
determination of an average of 20.5 or 7.3 plasmid copies per chromosome,
respectively. We found that recovery of the chromosomal DNA from purification
columns was less efficient than plasmid DNA (46.5 ± 1.9% and 87.4 ± 5.5%,
respectively) which may lead to observed differences in plasmid copy number.
Besides, the plasmid copy number variations dependent on DNA template isolation
method, we found that droplet digital PCR is a very convenient method for
measuring bacterial plasmid content. Careful determination of plasmid copy number
is essential for better understanding and optimization of recombinant proteins
production process. Droplet digital PCR is a very precise method that allows
performing thousands of individual PCR reactions in a single tube. The ddPCR does
not depend on running standard curves and is a straightforward and reliable
method to quantify the plasmid copy number. Therefore we believe that the ddPCR
designed in this study will be widely used for any plasmid copy number
calculation in the future.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0169846 
PMCID: PMC5234771
PMID: 28085908 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


101. Ann Clin Biochem. 2017 Jan 1:4563217691064. doi: 10.1177/0004563217691064. [Epub 
ahead of print]

Highly sensitive faecal DNA testing of TWIST1 methylation in combination with
faecal immunochemical test for haemoglobin is a promising marker for detection of
colorectal neoplasia.

Suehiro Y(1), Zhang Y(1), Hashimoto S(2), Takami T(2), Higaki S(3), Shindo Y(4), 
Suzuki N(4), Hazama S(5), Oka M(4), Nagano H(4), Sakaida I(2), Yamasaki T(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Oncology and Laboratory Medicine, Yamaguchi University
Graduate School of Medicine, Ube, Japan. (2)2 Department of Gastroenterology and 
Hepatology, Yamaguchi University Graduate School of Medicine, Ube, Japan. (3)3
Department of Gastroenterology, Sentohiru Hospital, Ube, Japan. (4)4 Department
of Gastroenterological, Breast and Endocrine Surgery, Yamaguchi University
Graduate School of Medicine, Ube, Japan. (5)5 Department of Translational
Research and Developmental Therapeutics against Cancer, Yamaguchi University
Graduate School of Medicine, Ube, Japan.

Background As TWIST1 methylation is specific to colorectal neoplasia, detection
of TWIST1 methylation from faeces samples might be useful for colorectal
neoplasia screening. However, because the content of human DNA in faeces is very 
small, it is very difficult to detect TWIST1 methylation by conventional
bisulphite-based methylation assays. Therefore, we developed a new methylation
assay without bisulphite treatment, the combined restriction digital PCR assay,
and evaluated its sensitivity and specificity in combination with and without the
faecal immunochemical test for haemoglobin for colorectal neoplasia detection
from faeces samples. Methods For the combined restriction digital PCR assay, DNA 
was treated with three methylation-sensitive restriction enzymes and an
exonuclease, followed by measurement of TWIST1 methylation level by droplet
digital PCR. Faecal DNA testing and faecal immunochemical test for haemoglobin
were performed on 109 patients with colorectal neoplasia and 10 control
individuals. Results Basic performance testing showed that the combined
restriction digital PCR assay enabled detection of 0.14% of the TWIST1
methylation level for the lymphocyte DNA. The combined restriction digital PCR
assay from faeces samples had a sensitivity of 22.2% (95% confidence interval,
2.8-60.0%) for non-advanced adenoma, 47.1% (95% confidence interval, 23.0-72.2%) 
for advanced adenoma, and 33.7% (95% confidence interval, 23.7-45.0%) for
colorectal cancer, and a specificity of 100.0%. Combination of faecal
immunochemical test for haemoglobin and faecal combined restriction digital PCR
assay increased sensitivity to 82.4% (95% confidence interval, 56.6-96.2%) for
the detection of advanced adenoma. Conclusions We developed the combined
restriction digital PCR assay, a possible highly sensitive methylation assay.
Combination of faecal combined restriction digital PCR assay with faecal
immunochemical test for haemoglobin may provide an alternative screening strategy
for colorectal neoplasia, especially for potentially precancerous lesions.

DOI: 10.1177/0004563217691064 
PMID: 28081635 


102. Sci Rep. 2017 Jan 12;7:39897. doi: 10.1038/srep39897.

Corrigendum: Ultra-sensitive droplet digital PCR for detecting a low-prevalence
somatic GNAQ mutation in Sturge-Weber syndrome.

Uchiyama Y, Nakashima M, Watanabe S, Miyajima M, Taguri M, Miyatake S, Miyake N, 
Saitsu H, Mishima H, Kinoshita A, Arai H, Yoshiura KI, Matsumoto N.

DOI: 10.1038/srep39897 
PMCID: PMC5227704
PMID: 28079102 


103. J Virol. 2017 Feb 28;91(6). pii: e02296-16. doi: 10.1128/JVI.02296-16. Print 2017
Mar 15.

Ultrasensitive HIV-1 p24 Assay Detects Single Infected Cells and Differences in
Reservoir Induction by Latency Reversal Agents.

Passaes CP(1), Bruel T(2,)(3), Decalf J(4,)(5), David A(1), Angin M(1), Monceaux 
V(1), Muller-Trutwin M(1,)(3), Noel N(6,)(7,)(8,)(9), Bourdic K(9), Lambotte
O(6,)(7,)(8,)(9), Albert ML(4,)(5,)(10), Duffy D(4,)(10), Schwartz O(2,)(3),
Sáez-Cirión A(11); ANRS RHIVIERA Consortium.

Collaborators: Sáez-Cirión A, Rouzioux C, Barré-Sinoussi F, Autran B, Benkirane
M, Guedj J, Hocqueloux L, Katlama C, Lambotte O, Legrand R, Meyer L, Mouquet H,
Müller-Trutwin M, Taburet AM, Van Lint C, Delfraissy JF, Martins LP,
Couffin-Cadiergues S.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Pasteur, Unité HIV, Inflammation et Persistance, Départements de
Virologie et Immunologie, Paris, France. (2)Institut Pasteur, Laboratoire Virus
et Immunité, Département de Virologie, Paris, France. (3)Vaccine Research
Institute, Creteil, France. (4)Institut Pasteur, Laboratoire Immunobiologie des
Cellules Dendritiques, Département d'Immunologie, Paris, France. (5)Genentech,
Inc., Department of Cancer Immunology, South San Francisco, California, USA.
(6)UMR-1184, Université Paris Sud, Le Kremlin-Bicêtre, France. (7)CEA, Division
of Immuno-Virology, DSV/iMETI, Fontenay-aux-Roses, France. (8)Inserm U1184,
Center for Immunology of Viral Infections and Autoimmune Diseases, Le
Kremlin-Bicêtre, France. (9)APHP, Service de Médecine Interne-Immunologie
Clinique, Hôpitaux Universitaires Paris Sud, Le Kremlin-Bicêtre, France.
(10)Institut Pasteur, Center for Translational Research, Paris, France.
(11)Institut Pasteur, Unité HIV, Inflammation et Persistance, Départements de
Virologie et Immunologie, Paris, France asier.saez-cirion@pasteur.fr.

The existence of HIV reservoirs in infected individuals under combined
antiretroviral therapy (cART) represents a major obstacle toward cure. Viral
reservoirs are assessed by quantification of HIV nucleic acids, a method which
does not discriminate between infectious and defective viruses, or by viral
outgrowth assays, which require large numbers of cells and long-term cultures.
Here, we used an ultrasensitive p24 digital assay, which we report to be
1,000-fold more sensitive than classical enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays
(ELISAs) in the quantification of HIV-1 Gag p24 production in samples from
HIV-infected individuals. Results from ultrasensitive p24 assays were compared to
those from conventional viral RNA reverse transcription-quantitative PCR
(RT-qPCR)-based assays and from outgrowth assay readout by flow cytometry. Using 
serial dilutions and flow-based single-cell sorting, we show that viral proteins 
produced by a single infected cell can be detected by the ultrasensitive p24
assay. This unique sensitivity allowed the early (as soon as day 1 in 43% of
cases) and more efficient detection and quantification of p24 in
phytohemagglutinin-L (PHA)-stimulated CD4(+) T cells from individuals under
effective cART. When seven different classes of latency reversal agents (LRA) in 
resting CD4(+) T cells from HIV-infected individuals were tested, the
ultrasensitive p24 assay revealed differences in the extent of HIV reactivation. 
Of note, HIV RNA production was infrequently accompanied by p24 protein
production (19%). Among the drugs tested, prostratin showed a superior capacity
in inducing viral protein production. In summary, the ultrasensitive p24 assay
allows the detection and quantification of p24 produced by single infected CD4(+)
T cells and provides a unique tool to assess early reactivation of infectious
virus from reservoirs in HIV-infected individuals.IMPORTANCE The persistence of
HIV reservoirs in infected individuals under effective antiretroviral treatment
represents a major obstacle toward cure. Different methods to estimate HIV
reservoirs exist, but there is currently no optimal assay to measure HIV
reservoirs in HIV eradication interventions. In the present study, we report an
ultrasensitive digital ELISA platform for quantification of the HIV-1 protein
p24. This method was employed to assess the early reactivation of infectious
virus from reservoirs in HIV-1-infected individuals. We found that viral proteins
produced by a single infected cell can be detected by an ultrasensitive p24
assay. This unprecedented resolution showed major advantages in comparison to
other techniques currently used to assess viral replication in reactivation
studies. In addition, such a highly sensitive assay allows discrimination of
drug-induced reactivation of productive HIV based on protein expression. The
present study heralds new opportunities to evaluate the HIV reservoir and the
efficacy of drugs used to target it.

Copyright © 2017 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.02296-16 
PMCID: PMC5331803 [Available on 2017-08-28]
PMID: 28077644 


104. Nucleic Acids Res. 2017 Jan 10. pii: gkw1324. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkw1324. [Epub
ahead of print]

Sensitive and inexpensive digital DNA analysis by microfluidic enrichment of
rolling circle amplified single-molecules.

Kühnemund M(1,)(2), Hernández-Neuta I(2), Sharif MI(2), Cornaglia M(3), Gijs
MA(3), Nilsson M(4,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Science for Life Laboratory, Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology,
Uppsala University, SE-751 05 Upssala, Sweden. (2)Science for Life Laboratory,
Department of Biophysics and Biochemistry, Stockholm University, SE- 171 65
Solna, Sweden. (3)Laboratory of Microsystems, École Polytechnique Fédérale de
Lausanne (EPFL), CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland. (4)Science for Life Laboratory,
Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Uppsala University, SE-751 05
Upssala, Sweden mats.nilsson@scilifelab.se.

Single molecule quantification assays provide the ultimate sensitivity and
precision for molecular analysis. However, most digital analysis techniques, i.e.
droplet PCR, require sophisticated and expensive instrumentation for molecule
compartmentalization, amplification and analysis. Rolling circle amplification
(RCA) provides a simpler means for digital analysis. Nevertheless, the
sensitivity of RCA assays has until now been limited by inefficient detection
methods. We have developed a simple microfluidic strategy for enrichment of RCA
products into a single field of view of a low magnification fluorescent sensor,
enabling ultra-sensitive digital quantification of nucleic acids over a dynamic
range from 1.2 aM to 190 fM. We prove the broad applicability of our analysis
platform by demonstrating 5-plex detection of as little as ∼1 pg (∼300 genome
copies) of pathogenic DNA with simultaneous antibiotic resistance marker
detection, and the analysis of rare oncogene mutations. Our method is simpler,
more cost-effective and faster than other digital analysis techniques and
provides the means to implement digital analysis in any laboratory equipped with 
a standard fluorescent microscope.

© The Author(s) 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic
Acids Research.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkw1324 
PMID: 28077562 


105. Clin Chem. 2017 Mar;63(3):731-741. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2016.264432. Epub 2017
Jan 10.

Paper-Based MicroRNA Expression Profiling from Plasma and Circulating Tumor
Cells.

Leong SM(1,)(2), Tan KM(3), Chua HW(2), Huang MC(3), Cheong WC(4), Li MH(4),
Tucker S(5), Koay ES(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, NUH, Singapore, Singapore;
patv29@nus.edu.sg evelyn_koay@nuhs.edu.sg. (2)Department of Pathology, Yong Loo
Lin School of Medicine, NUS, Singapore, Singapore. (3)Department of Laboratory
Medicine, NUH, Singapore, Singapore. (4)CellSievo Pte Ltd., Singapore, Singapore.
(5)Tucker Medical, Novena Specialist Center, Singapore, Singapore.

BACKGROUND: Molecular characterization of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) holds
great promise for monitoring metastatic progression and characterizing metastatic
disease. However, leukocyte and red blood cell contamination of routinely
isolated CTCs makes CTC-specific molecular characterization extremely
challenging.
METHODS: Here we report the use of a paper-based medium for efficient extraction 
of microRNAs (miRNAs) from limited amounts of biological samples such as rare
CTCs harvested from cancer patient blood. Specifically, we devised a workflow
involving the use of Flinders Technology Associates (FTA)(®) Elute Card with a
digital PCR-inspired "partitioning" method to extract and purify miRNAs from
plasma and CTCs.
RESULTS: We demonstrated the sensitivity of this method to detect miRNA
expression from as few as 3 cancer cells spiked into human blood. Using this
method, background miRNA expression was excluded from contaminating blood cells, 
and CTC-specific miRNA expression profiles were derived from breast and
colorectal cancer patients. Plasma separated out during purification of CTCs
could likewise be processed using the same paper-based method for miRNA
detection, thereby maximizing the amount of patient-specific information that can
be derived from a single blood draw.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, this paper-based extraction method enables an efficient,
cost-effective workflow for maximized recovery of small RNAs from limited
biological samples for downstream molecular analyses.

© 2016 American Association for Clinical Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2016.264432 
PMID: 28073899 


106. Clin Chem. 2017 Mar;63(3):691-699. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2016.262337. Epub 2017
Jan 10.

Patient-Specific Circulating Tumor DNA Detection during Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy 
in Triple-Negative Breast Cancer.

Riva F(1,)(2), Bidard FC(3,)(4), Houy A(5), Saliou A(1), Madic J(1), Rampanou
A(1,)(6), Hego C(1), Milder M(1,)(6), Cottu P(4), Sablin MP(4), Vincent-Salomon
A(7), Lantz O(6,)(7,)(8,)(9), Stern MH(5), Proudhon C(1), Pierga JY(1,)(4,)(10).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Circulating Tumor Biomarkers, Institut Curie, PSL Research
University, SiRIC, Paris, France. (2)Department of Medical Oncology, San Gerardo 
Hospital, Monza, Italy. (3)Laboratory of Circulating Tumor Biomarkers, Institut
Curie, PSL Research University, SiRIC, Paris, France;
francois-clement.bidard@curie.fr. (4)Department of Medical Oncology, Institut
Curie, PSL Research University, Paris, France. (5)INSERM U830, Institut Curie,
PSL Research University, Paris, France. (6)INSERM CIC-BT 1428, Institut Curie,
PSL Research University, Paris, France. (7)Department of Biopathology, Institut
Curie, PSL Research University, Paris, France. (8)Department of Tumor Biology,
Institut Curie, PSL Research University, Paris, France. (9)INSERM U932, Institut 
Curie, PSL Research University, Paris, France. (10)Université Paris Descartes,
Sorbonne Paris Cité, Paris, France.

BACKGROUND: In nonmetastatic triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) patients, we
investigated whether circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) detection can reflect the
tumor response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NCT) and detect minimal residual
disease after surgery.
METHODS: Ten milliliters of plasma were collected at 4 time points: before NCT;
after 1 cycle; before surgery; after surgery. Customized droplet digital PCR
(ddPCR) assays were used to track tumor protein p53 (TP53) mutations previously
characterized in tumor tissue by massively parallel sequencing (MPS).
RESULTS: Forty-six patients with nonmetastatic TNBC were enrolled. TP53 mutations
were identified in 40 of them. Customized ddPCR probes were validated for 38
patients, with excellent correlation with MPS (r = 0.99), specificity (≥2
droplets/assay), and sensitivity (at least 0.1%). At baseline, ctDNA was detected
in 27/36 patients (75%). Its detection was associated with mitotic index (P =
0.003), tumor grade (P = 0.003), and stage (P = 0.03). During treatment, we
observed a drop of ctDNA levels in all patients but 1. No patient had detectable 
ctDNA after surgery. The patient with rising ctDNA levels experienced tumor
progression during NCT. Pathological complete response (16/38 patients) was not
correlated with ctDNA detection at any time point. ctDNA positivity after 1 cycle
of NCT was correlated with shorter disease-free (P < 0.001) and overall (P =
0.006) survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Customized ctDNA detection by ddPCR achieved a 75% detection rate at
baseline. During NCT, ctDNA levels decreased quickly and minimal residual disease
was not detected after surgery. However, a slow decrease of ctDNA level during
NCT was strongly associated with shorter survival.

© 2016 American Association for Clinical Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2016.262337 
PMID: 28073896 


107. Future Oncol. 2017 Apr;13(9):787-797. doi: 10.2217/fon-2016-0427. Epub 2017 Jan
11.

Circulating tumor cells and DNA for real-time EGFR detection and monitoring of
non-small-cell lung cancer.

He J(1), Tan W(2), Ma J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Jingzhou Central Hospital, The Second
Clinical Medical College, Yangtze University, Jingzhou, People's Republic of
China. (2)Haemodialysis Centre, Jingzhou Central Hospital, The Second Clinical
Medical College, Yangtze University, Jingzhou, People's Republic of China.

AIM: We investigate the suitability of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) and
circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) in non-small-cell lung cancer management, which is 
challenging in conventional biopsies.
MATERIALS & METHODS: We performed serial blood extraction from 120 patients of
varying EGFR status. Molecular profiling was performed using droplet digital PCR 
and correlated to survival outcome.
RESULTS: Overall, we observed 95% agreement using CTCs and ctDNA with
conventional tissue biopsies, which indicated the disease's close correlation.
The mutant signature was stable and captured the dynamic changes during
treatment. It aided to stratify patients with worse survival outcome.
CONCLUSION: CTCs and ctDNA can complement current disease management. We
demonstrated its effectiveness in continuous disease profiling, which is critical
for clinical decision-making.

DOI: 10.2217/fon-2016-0427 
PMID: 28073294 


108. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2017 Jan 6. pii: S0016-6480(17)30023-0. doi:
10.1016/j.ygcen.2017.01.013. [Epub ahead of print]

Identification of ecdysteroid receptor-mediated signaling pathways in the
hepatopancreas of the red swamp crayfish, Procambarus clarkii.

Zhu B(1), Tang L(2), Yu Y(2), Yu H(2), Wang L(2), Qian C(2), Wei G(2), Liu C(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Sciences, Anhui Agricultural University, Hefei 230036, PR
China. Electronic address: zhubaojian@ahau.edu.cn. (2)College of Life Sciences,
Anhui Agricultural University, Hefei 230036, PR China.

The hepatopancreas of crustaceans plays an important role in lipid and
carbohydrate metabolism, digestion of food, and biogenesis. In this study, the
hepatopancreas transcriptome from the red crayfish Procambarus clarkii was
characterized for the first time using high-throughput sequencing, producing
approximately 41.4 million reads were obtained. After de novo assembly, 57,363
unigenes with an average length of 725bp were identified, Gene Ontology analysis 
categorized 22,580 as being involved in biological processes, among which
metabolic process and cellular process groups were the most highly enriched. A
total of 8034 unigenes were assigned to 223 metabolic pathways following mapping 
against the Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG) database. Ecdysteroid 
receptor (EcR)-mediated signaling pathways were investigated using digital gene
expression (DGE) analysis following RNA interference targeting the EcR. A total
of 529 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, including 322
downregulated and 207 upregulated unigenes. Of these, 445 (84.12%) were annotated
successfully by alignment with known sequences, many of which were related to
catalytic activity and binding functional categories. Using KEGG enrichment
analysis, 183 DEGs were clustered into 78 pathways, and six significantly
enriched pathways were predicted. The expression patterns of candidate genes
identified by real-time PCR were consistent with the DGE results.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2017.01.013 
PMID: 28069422 


109. Front Plant Sci. 2016 Dec 22;7:1897. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2016.01897. eCollection
2016.

Characterization and Comparative Expression Profiling of Browning Response in
Medinilla formosana after Cutting.

Wang Y(1), Wang Y(1), Li K(2), Song X(1), Chen J(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory Breeding Base for Zhejiang Sustainable Pest and Disease
Control, Ministry of Agriculture Key Laboratory of Biotechnology in Plant
Protection, Institute of Virology and Biotechnology, Zhejiang Academy of
Agricultural Sciences Hangzhou, China. (2)Agriculture Experiment Station,
Zhejiang University Hangzhou, China.

Plant browning is a recalcitrant problem for in vitro culture and often leads to 
poor growth of explants and even failure of tissue culture. However, the
molecular mechanisms underlying browning-induced physiological processes remain
unclear. Medinilla is considered one of the most difficult genera for tissue
culture owning to its severe browning. In the present study, intact aseptic
plantlets of Medinilla formosana Hayata previously obtained by ovary culture,
were used to explore the characteristics and molecular mechanism of the browning 
response. Successive morphological and anatomical observations after cutting
showed that the browning of M. formosana was not lethal but adaptive. De novo
transcriptome and digital gene expression (DGE) profiling using Illumina
high-throughput sequencing were then used to explore molecular regulation after
cutting. About 7.5 million tags of de novo transcriptome were obtained and 58,073
unigenes were assembled and annotated. A total of 6,431 differentially expressed 
genes (DEGs) at three stages after cutting were identified, and the expression
patterns of these browning-related genes were clustered and analyzed. A number of
putative DEGs involved in signal transduction and secondary metabolism were
particularly studied and the potential roles of these cutting-responsive mRNAs in
plant defense to diverse abiotic stresses are discussed. The DGE profiling data
were also validated by quantitative RT-PCR analysis. The data obtained in this
study provide an excellent resource for unraveling the molecular mechanisms of
browning processes during in vitro tissue culture, and lay a foundation for
future studies to inhibit and eliminate browning damage.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2016.01897 
PMCID: PMC5178855
PMID: 28066460 


110. J Vis Exp. 2016 Dec 21;(118). doi: 10.3791/54838.

Measurement of Differentially Methylated INS DNA Species in Human Serum Samples
as a Biomarker of Islet β Cell Death.

Tersey SA(1), Nelson JB(1), Fisher MM(2), Mirmira RG(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, IU Center for Diabetes and Metabolic Disease,
Indiana University School of Medicine. (2)Department of Pediartics, Omaha
Children's Hospital and Medical Center, University of Nebraska Medical Center.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, IU Center for Diabetes and Metabolic Disease,
Indiana University School of Medicine; Departments of Biochemistry and Molecular 
Biology, Medicine, and Cellular and Integrative Physiology, IU Center for
Diabetes and Metabolic Disease, Indiana University School of Medicine; Indiana
Biosciences Research Institute; rmirmira@iu.edu.

The death of islet β cells is thought to underlie the pathogenesis of virtually
all forms of diabetes and to precede the development of frank hyperglycemia,
especially in type 1 diabetes. The development of sensitive and reliable
biomarkers of β cell death may allow for early therapeutic intervention to
prevent or delay the development of diabetes. Recently, several groups including 
our own have reported that cell-free, differentially methylated DNA encoding
preproinsulin (INS) in the circulation is correlated to β cell death in pre-type 
1 diabetes and new-onset type 1 diabetes. Here, we present a step-by-step
protocol using digital PCR for the measurement of cell-free INS DNA that is
differentially methylated at cytosine at position -69 bp (relative to the
transcriptional start site). We demonstrate that the assay can distinguish
between methylated and unmethylated cytosine at position -69 bp, is linear across
several orders of magnitude, provides absolute quantitation of DNA copy numbers, 
and can be applied to samples of human serum from individuals with new-onset type
1 diabetes and disease-free controls. The protocol described here can be adapted 
to any DNA species for which detection of differentially methylated cytosines is 
desired, whether from circulation or from isolated cells and tissues, and can
provide absolute quantitation of DNA fragments.

DOI: 10.3791/54838 
PMCID: PMC5226430
PMID: 28060259 


111. Sci Rep. 2017 Jan 6;7:40031. doi: 10.1038/srep40031.

An exploratory study of predisposing genetic factors for
DiGeorge/velocardiofacial syndrome.

Vergés L(1), Vidal F(1), Geán E(2), Alemany-Schmidt A(3), Oliver-Bonet M(3),
Blanco J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Genetics of Male Fertility Group, Unitat de Biologia Cel·lular (Facultat de
Biociències), Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, 08193-Bellaterra (Cerdanyola del
Vallès), Spain. (2)Secció de Genètica Clínica. Hospital Universitari Sant Joan de
Déu, 08950-Esplugues de Llobregat, Spain. (3)Laboratori de Genòmica de la Salut, 
Hospital Universitari Son Espases (HUSE), Palma de Mallorca, Spain.

DiGeorge/velocardiofacial syndrome (DGS/VCFS) is a disorder caused by a 22q11.2
deletion mediated by non-allelic homologous recombination (NAHR) between low-copy
repeats (LCRs). We have evaluated the role of LCR22 genomic architecture and
PRDM9 variants as DGS/VCFS predisposing factors. We applied FISH using fosmid
probes on chromatin fibers to analyze the number of tandem repeat blocks in LCR22
in two DGS/VCFS fathers-of-origin with proven 22q11.2 NAHR susceptibility.
Results revealed copy number variations (CNVs) of L9 and K3 fosmids in these
individuals compared to controls. The total number of L9 and K3 copies was also
characterized using droplet digital PCR (ddPCR). Although we were unable to
confirm variations, we detected an additional L9 amplicon corresponding to a
pseudogene. Moreover, none of the eight DGS/VCFS parents-of-origin was
heterozygote for the inv(22)(q11.2) haplotype. PRDM9 sequencing showed equivalent
allelic distributions between DGS/VCFS parents-of-origin and controls, although a
new PRDM9 allele (L50) was identified in one case. Our results support the
hypothesis that LCR22s variations influences 22q11.2 NAHR events, however further
studies are needed to confirm this association and clarify the contribution of
pseudogenes and rare PDRM9 alleles to NAHR susceptibility.

DOI: 10.1038/srep40031 
PMCID: PMC5216377
PMID: 28059126 


112. Chromosome Res. 2017 Jan 5. doi: 10.1007/s10577-016-9543-7. [Epub ahead of print]

Genomic profiling of canine mast cell tumors identifies DNA copy number
aberrations associated with KIT mutations and high histological grade.

Mochizuki H(1,)(2), Thomas R(1,)(2), Moroff S(3), Breen M(4,)(5,)(6,)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biomedical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine,
North Carolina State University, 1060 William Moore Drive, Raleigh, NC, 27607,
USA. (2)Comparative Medicine Institute, North Carolina State University, Raleigh,
NC, USA. (3)Antech Diagnostics Inc., 1111 Marcus Ave. Suite M28, New Hyde Park,
NY, USA. (4)Department of Molecular Biomedical Sciences, College of Veterinary
Medicine, North Carolina State University, 1060 William Moore Drive, Raleigh, NC,
27607, USA. Matthew_Breen@ncsu.edu. (5)Comparative Medicine Institute, North
Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC, USA. Matthew_Breen@ncsu.edu. (6)Center
for Human Health and the Environment, North Carolina State University, Raleigh,
NC, 27695, USA. Matthew_Breen@ncsu.edu. (7)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer
Center, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
Matthew_Breen@ncsu.edu.

Mast cell tumor (MCT) is the most common skin malignancy of domestic dogs and
presents with a widely variable clinical behavior. Although activating KIT
mutations are present in approximately 20% of canine MCTs, molecular etiology is 
largely unknown for the majority of this cancer. Characterization of genomic
alterations in canine MCTs may identify genomic regions and/or genes responsible 
for their development and progression, facilitating the discovery of new
therapeutic targets and improved clinical management of this heterogeneous
cancer. We performed genome-wide DNA copy number analysis of 109 primary MCTs
derived from three popular canine breeds (the Boxer, Labrador Retriever, and Pug)
as well as nontarget breeds using oligonucleotide array comparative genomic
hybridization (oaCGH). We demonstrated a stepwise accumulation of numerical DNA
copy number aberrations (CNAs) as tumor grade increases. DNA sequencing analysis 
revealed that KIT mutations were found less frequently in the Pug tumors and were
strongly associated with high histological grade. Tumors with KIT mutations
showed genome-wide aberrant copy number profiles, with frequent CNAs involving
genes in the p53 and RB pathways, whereas CNAs were very limited in tumors with
wild-type KIT. We evaluated the presence of four CNAs to predict aggressive tumor
phenotypes. This approach predicted aggressive tumors with a sensitivity of
78-94% and specificity of 88-93%, when using oaCGH and droplet digital PCR
platforms. Further investigation of genome regions identified in this study may
lead to the development of a molecular tool for classification and prognosis, as 
well as identification of therapeutic target molecules.

DOI: 10.1007/s10577-016-9543-7 
PMID: 28058543 


113. PLoS One. 2017 Jan 4;12(1):e0169431. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0169431.
eCollection 2017.

Application of Stochastic Labeling with Random-Sequence Barcodes for Simultaneous
Quantification and Sequencing of Environmental 16S rRNA Genes.

Hoshino T(1,)(2), Inagaki F(1,)(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Geomicrobiology Group, Kochi Institute for Core Sample Research, Japan Agency 
for Marine-Earth Science and Technology (JAMSTEC), Nankoku, Kochi, Japan.
(2)Geobiotechnology Group, Research and Development Center for Submarine
Resources, JAMSTEC, Nankoku, Kochi, Japan. (3)Research and Development Center for
Ocean Drilling Science, JAMSTEC, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2017 Mar 3;12 (3):e0173546.

Next-generation sequencing (NGS) is a powerful tool for analyzing environmental
DNA and provides the comprehensive molecular view of microbial communities. For
obtaining the copy number of particular sequences in the NGS library, however,
additional quantitative analysis as quantitative PCR (qPCR) or digital PCR (dPCR)
is required. Furthermore, number of sequences in a sequence library does not
always reflect the original copy number of a target gene because of biases caused
by PCR amplification, making it difficult to convert the proportion of particular
sequences in the NGS library to the copy number using the mass of input DNA. To
address this issue, we applied stochastic labeling approach with random-tag
sequences and developed a NGS-based quantification protocol, which enables
simultaneous sequencing and quantification of the targeted DNA. This quantitative
sequencing (qSeq) is initiated from single-primer extension (SPE) using a primer 
with random tag adjacent to the 5' end of target-specific sequence. During SPE,
each DNA molecule is stochastically labeled with the random tag. Subsequently,
first-round PCR is conducted, specifically targeting the SPE product, followed by
second-round PCR to index for NGS. The number of random tags is only determined
during the SPE step and is therefore not affected by the two rounds of PCR that
may introduce amplification biases. In the case of 16S rRNA genes, after NGS
sequencing and taxonomic classification, the absolute number of target phylotypes
16S rRNA gene can be estimated by Poisson statistics by counting random tags
incorporated at the end of sequence. To test the feasibility of this approach,
the 16S rRNA gene of Sulfolobus tokodaii was subjected to qSeq, which resulted in
accurate quantification of 5.0 × 103 to 5.0 × 104 copies of the 16S rRNA gene.
Furthermore, qSeq was applied to mock microbial communities and environmental
samples, and the results were comparable to those obtained using digital PCR and 
relative abundance based on a standard sequence library. We demonstrated that the
qSeq protocol proposed here is advantageous for providing less-biased absolute
copy numbers of each target DNA with NGS sequencing at one time. By this new
experiment scheme in microbial ecology, microbial community compositions can be
explored in more quantitative manner, thus expanding our knowledge of microbial
ecosystems in natural environments.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0169431 
PMCID: PMC5215600
PMID: 28052139 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


114. Oncotarget. 2017 Jan 24;8(4):5861-5873. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.14390.

Total DNA input is a crucial determinant of the sensitivity of plasma cell-free
DNA EGFR mutation detection using droplet digital PCR.

Zhang Y(1), Xu Y(1), Zhong W(1), Zhao J(1), Chen M(1), Zhang L(1), Li L(1), Wang 
M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Peking Union Medical College Hospital,
Peking Union Medical College, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing,
China.

We evaluated the use of droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) to detect plasma cell-free
DNA (cfDNA) epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations in advanced
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients. Compared with tumor-tissue-based
detection, the sensitivity of ddPCR for detecting plasma cfDNA tyrosine kinase
inhibitor (TKI)-sensitizing EGFR mutations was 61.3%, the specificity was 96.7%, 
and the consistency rate was 81.4% (κ=0.605, 95% confidence interval:
0.501-0.706, p <0.0001). The sensitivity declined from 82.6% to 46.7% with
decreasing cfDNA inputs (p=0.028). The plasma cfDNA concentration correlated with
gender (males vs.females =11.69 ng/mL vs. 9.508 ng/mL; p=0.044), EGFR mutation
status (tumor-tissue EGFR mutation-positive (EGFR M+) vs. EGFR mutation-negative 
(EGFR M-) = 9.61 ng/mL vs. 12.82 ng/mL; p =0.049) and specimen collection time
(≤2 years vs. >2 years=13.83 ng/mL vs. 6.575 ng/mL; p <0.001), and was greater in
tumor-tissue EGFR M+ / plasma EGFR M+ patients than in tumor-tissue EGFR
M+/plasma EGFR M- patients (11.61 vs. 7.73 ng/mL, respectively; p=0.003). Thus
total cfDNA input crucially influences the sensitivity of plasma cfDNA EGFR
mutation testing with ddPCR. Such analysis could be an effective supplemental
test for advanced NSCLC patients.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.14390 
PMID: 28052016 


115. PLoS Pathog. 2017 Jan 3;13(1):e1006112. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1006112.
eCollection 2017.

Early Antiretroviral Therapy Is Associated with Lower HIV DNA Molecular Diversity
and Lower Inflammation in Cerebrospinal Fluid but Does Not Prevent the
Establishment of Compartmentalized HIV DNA Populations.

Oliveira MF(1), Chaillon A(1), Nakazawa M(1), Vargas M(1), Letendre SL(1,)(2),
Strain MC(1), Ellis RJ(2,)(3), Morris S(1), Little SJ(1), Smith DM(1,)(4),
Gianella S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California San Diego, La Jolla,
California, United States of America. (2)HIV Neurobehavioral Research Center, San
Diego, California, United States of America. (3)Departments of Neurosciences and 
Psychiatry, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California, United
States of America. (4)Veterans Affairs San Diego Healthcare System, San Diego,
California, United States of America.

Even when antiretroviral therapy (ART) is started early after infection, HIV DNA 
might persist in the central nervous system (CNS), possibly contributing to
inflammation, brain damage and neurocognitive impairment. Paired blood and
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) were collected from 16 HIV-infected individuals on
suppressive ART: 9 participants started ART <4 months of the estimated date of
infection (EDI) ("early ART"), and 7 participants started ART >14 months after
EDI ("late ART"). For each participant, neurocognitive functioning was measured
by Global Deficit Score (GDS). HIV DNA levels were measured in peripheral blood
mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and CSF cell pellets by droplet digital (dd)PCR.
Soluble markers of inflammation (sCD163, IL-6, MCP-1, TNF-α) and neuronal damage 
(neurofilament light [NFL]) were measured in blood and CSF supernatant by
immunoassays. HIV-1 partial C2V3 env deep sequencing data (Roche 454) were
obtained for 8 paired PBMC and CSF specimens and used for phylogenetic and
compartmentalization analysis. Median exposure to ART at the time of sampling was
2.6 years (IQR: 2.2-3.7) and did not differ between groups. We observed that
early ART was significantly associated with lower molecular diversity of HIV DNA 
in CSF (p<0.05), and lower IL-6 levels in CSF (p = 0.02), but no difference for
GDS, NFL, or HIV DNA detectability compared to late ART. Compartmentalization of 
HIV DNA populations between CSF and blood was detected in 6 out of 8 participants
with available paired HIV DNA sequences (2 from early and 4 from late ART group).
Phylogenetic analysis confirmed the presence of monophyletic HIV DNA populations 
within the CSF in 7 participants, and the same population was repeatedly sampled 
over a 5 months period in one participant with longitudinal sampling. Such
compartmentalized provirus in the CNS needs to be considered for the design of
future eradication strategies and might contribute to the neuropathogenesis of
HIV.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1006112 
PMCID: PMC5266327
PMID: 28046096 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


116. PLoS One. 2017 Jan 3;12(1):e0169233. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0169233.
eCollection 2017.

Analysis of Genetic Variation in CYP450 Genes for Clinical Implementation.

Goh LL(1), Lim CW(1), Sim WC(1), Toh LX(1), Leong KP(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)TTSH Research Laboratory, Clinical Research & Innovation Office, Tan Tock Seng
Hospital, Singapore, Singapore. (2)Department of Rheumatology, Allergy and
Immunology, Tan Tock Seng Hospital, Singapore, Singapore.

BACKGROUND: Genetic determinants of drug response remain stable throughout life
and offer great promise to patient-tailored drug therapy. The adoption of
pharmacogenetic (PGx) testing in patient care requires accurate, cost effective
and rapid genotyping with clear guidance on the use of the results. Hence, we
evaluated a 32 SNPs panel for implementing PGx testing in clinical laboratories.
METHODS: We designed a 32-SNP panel for PGx testing in clinical laboratories. The
variants were selected using the clinical annotations of the Pharmacogenomics
Knowledgebase (PharmGKB) and include polymorphisms of CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6,
CYP3A5 and VKORC1 genes. The CYP2D6 gene allele quantification was determined
simultaneously with TaqMan copy number assays targeting intron 2 and exon 9
regions. The genotyping results showed high call rate accuracy according to
concordance with genotypes identified by independent analyses on Sequenome
massarray and droplet digital PCR. Furthermore, 506 genomic samples across three 
major ethnic groups of Singapore (Malay, Indian and Chinese) were analysed on our
workflow.
RESULTS: We found that 98% of our study subjects carry one or more CPIC
actionable variants. The major alleles detected include CYP2C9*3, CYP2C19*2,
CYP2D6*10, CYP2D6*36, CYP2D6*41, CYP3A5*3 and VKORC1*2. These translate into a
high percentage of intermediate (IM) and poor metabolizer (PM) phenotypes for
these genes in our population.
CONCLUSION: Genotyping may be useful to identify patients who are prone to drug
toxicity with standard doses of drug therapy in our population. The simplicity
and robustness of this PGx panel is highly suitable for use in a clinical
laboratory.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0169233 
PMCID: PMC5207784
PMID: 28046094 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


117. Methods Mol Biol. 2017;1547:143-164. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-6734-6_12.

Droplet-Based Microfluidics Digital PCR for the Detection of KRAS Mutations.

Pekin D(1), Taly V(2).

Author information: 
(1)CNRS, Univ. Bordeaux, CRPP, UPR 8641, 115 Avenue Schweitzer, F-33600, Pessac, 
France. (2)INSERM UMRS1147, CNRS SNC 5014, Université Paris Descartes, 45 rue des
Saints-Pères, 75270, ParisCedex 06, France. valerie.taly@parisdescartes.fr.

We demonstrate an accurate and sensitive quantification of mutated KRAS oncogene 
in genomic DNA, using droplet-based microfluidics and digital PCR.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-6734-6_12 
PMID: 28044294 


118. Methods Mol Biol. 2017;1547:133-142. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-6734-6_11.

Multiplex Detection of KRAS Mutations Using Passive Droplet Fusion.

Pekin D(1), Taly V(2).

Author information: 
(1)CNRS, Univ. Bordeaux, CRPP, UPR 8641, 115 Avenue Schweitzer, F-33600, Pessac, 
France. (2)INSERM UMRS1147, CNRS SNC 5014, Université Paris Descartes, Equipe
labellisée Ligue Nationale contre le cancer 2016, 45 rue des Saints-Pères, 75270,
Paris Cedex 06, France. valerie.taly@parisdescartes.fr.

We describe a droplet microfluidics method to screen for multiple mutations of a 
same oncogene in a single experiment using passive droplet fusion. Genomic DNA
from H1573 cell-line was screened for the presence of the six common mutations of
the KRAS oncogene as well as wild-type sequences with a detection efficiency of
98 %. Furthermore, the mutant allelic fraction of the cell-line was also assessed
correctly showing that the technique is quantitative.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-6734-6_11 
PMID: 28044293 


119. Methods Mol Biol. 2017;1547:123-132. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-6734-6_10.

SlipChip Device for Digital Nucleic Acid Amplification.

Shen F(1).

Author information: 
(1)SlipChip Corporation, 230 Constitution Drive, Menlo Park, CA, 94025, USA.
fengshen@slipchip.com.

Digital nucleic acid amplification (Digital NAA) quantifies nucleic acid by
compartmentalizing a sample of DNA or RNA into a large number of discrete
partitions and performing parallel nucleic acid amplification, such as polymerase
chain reaction (PCR) or isothermal amplification reactions. With the counts of
positive wells, total number of wells, and volumes of wells, the concentration of
the target nucleic acid in the sample can be quantified. Digital NAA is
considered increasingly powerful for ultra-sensitive detection and accurate
quantification of nucleic acid for biological research and potentially medical
diagnostics. Here, we describe glass SlipChip devices to perform digital NAA
without cumbersome manual manipulation or complex fluidic control systems.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-6734-6_10 
PMID: 28044292 


120. Clin Microbiol Infect. 2016 Dec 29. pii: S1198-743X(16)30650-4. doi:
10.1016/j.cmi.2016.12.020. [Epub ahead of print]

Relationship between CCR5((WT/Δ32)) heterozygosity and HIV-1 reservoir size in
adolescents and young adults with perinatally acquired HIV-1 infection.

Martínez-Bonet M(1), González-Serna A(2), Clemente MI(1), Morón-López S(3), Díaz 
L(1), Navarro M(4), Puertas MC(3), Leal M(5), Ruiz-Mateos E(5), Martinez-Picado
J(6), Muñoz-Fernández MA(7).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Immuno Molecular Biology, Section of Immunology, Hospital
General Universitario Gregorio Marañon, IiSGM, Madrid, Spain; Spanish HIV HGM
BioBank, Madrid, Spain; Networking Research Center on Bioengineering,
Biomaterials and Nanomedicine (CIBER-BBN), Madrid, Spain. (2)Laboratory of Immuno
Molecular Biology, Section of Immunology, Hospital General Universitario Gregorio
Marañon, IiSGM, Madrid, Spain; Laboratory of Immunovirology, Clinic Unit of
Infectious Diseases, Microbiology and Preventive Medicine, Institute of
Biomedicine of Seville, IBiS, Virgen del Rocío University
Hospital/CSIC/University of Seville, Seville, Spain. (3)AIDS Research Institute
IrsiCaixa, Institut d'Investigació en Ciències de la Salut Germans Trias i Pujol,
Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Badalona, Spain. (4)Department of Infection
Disease Section, Paediatric Service, Hospital General Universitario Gregorio
Marañón, Madrid, Spain. (5)Laboratory of Immunovirology, Clinic Unit of
Infectious Diseases, Microbiology and Preventive Medicine, Institute of
Biomedicine of Seville, IBiS, Virgen del Rocío University
Hospital/CSIC/University of Seville, Seville, Spain. (6)AIDS Research Institute
IrsiCaixa, Institut d'Investigació en Ciències de la Salut Germans Trias i Pujol,
Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Badalona, Spain; Universitat de Vic -
Universitat Central de Catalunya (UVic-UCC), Barcelona, Spain; Institució
Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avançats (ICREA), Barcelona, Spain. Electronic
address: jmpicado@irsicaixa.es. (7)Laboratory of Immuno Molecular Biology,
Section of Immunology, Hospital General Universitario Gregorio Marañon, IiSGM,
Madrid, Spain; Spanish HIV HGM BioBank, Madrid, Spain; Networking Research Center
on Bioengineering, Biomaterials and Nanomedicine (CIBER-BBN), Madrid, Spain.
Electronic address: mmunoz.hgugm@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Several host factors contribute to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
disease progression in the absence of combination antiretroviral therapy (cART). 
Among them, the CC-chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) is known to be the main
co-receptor used by HIV-1 to enter target cells during the early stages of an
HIV-1 infection.
OBJECTIVE: We evaluated the association of CCR5((WT/Δ32)) heterozygosity with
HIV-1 reservoir size, lymphocyte differentiation, activation and immunosenescence
in adolescents and young adults with perinatally acquired HIV infection receiving
cART.
METHODS: CCR5 genotype was analysed in 242 patients with vertically transmitted
HIV-1 infection from Paediatric Spanish AIDS Research Network Cohort (coRISpe).
Proviral HIV-1 DNA was quantified by digital-droplet PCR, and T-cell phenotype
was evaluated by flow cytometry in a subset of 24 patients (ten with
CCR5((Δ32/WT)) genotype and 14 with CCR5((WT/WT)) genotype).
RESULTS: Twenty-three patients were heterozygous for the Δ32 genotype but none
was homozygous for the mutated CCR5 allele. We observed no difference in the
HIV-1 reservoir size (455 and 578 copies of HIV-1 DNA per million CD4(+) T cells 
in individuals with CCR5((WT/WT)) and CCR5((Δ32/WT)) genotypes, respectively; p
0.75) or in the immune activation markers between both genotype groups. However, 
we found that total HIV-1 DNA in CD4(+) T cells correlated with the percentage of
memory CD4(+) T cells: a direct correlation in CCR5((WT/Δ32)) patients but an
inverse correlation in those with the CCR5((WT/WT)) genotype.
CONCLUSIONS: This finding suggests a differential distribution of the viral
reservoir compartment in CCR5((WT/Δ32)) patients with perinatal HIV infection,
which is a characteristic that may affect the design of strategies for reservoir 
elimination.

Copyright © 2017 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmi.2016.12.020 
PMID: 28042001 


121. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2017 Feb;162(1):11-18. doi: 10.1007/s10549-016-4092-5.
Epub 2016 Dec 30.

Use of droplet digital PCR for quantitative and automatic analysis of the HER2
status in breast cancer patients.

Otsuji K(1), Sasaki T(2), Tanaka A(3), Kunita A(3), Ikemura M(3), Matsusaka
K(3,)(4), Tada K(1), Fukayama M(3), Seto Y(1,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Breast and Endocrine Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan. (2)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, University 
of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan. takesasa@m.u-tokyo.ac.jp.
(3)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tokyo, 7-3-1
Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan. (4)Department of Molecular Oncology, Graduate
School of Medicine, Chiba University, Chiba, Japan. (5)Department of Stomach and 
Esophageal Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: Digital polymerase chain reaction (dPCR) has been used to yield an
absolute measure of nucleic acid concentrations. Recently, a new method referred 
to as droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) has gained attention as a more precise and less
subjective assay to quantify DNA amplification. We demonstrated the usefulness of
ddPCR to determine HER2 gene amplification of breast cancer.
METHODS: In this study, we used ddPCR to measure the HER2 gene copy number in
clinical formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded samples of 41 primary breast cancer
patients. To improve the accuracy of ddPCR analysis, we also estimated the tumor 
content ratio (TCR) for each sample.
RESULTS: Our determination method for HER2 gene amplification using the ddPCR
ratio (ERBB2:ch17cent copy number ratio) combined with the TCR showed high
consistency with the conventionally defined HER2 gene status according to
ASCO-CAP (American Society of Clinical Oncology/College of American Pathologists)
guidelines (P<0.0001, Fisher's exact test). The equivocal area was established by
adopting 99% confidence intervals obtained by cell line assays, which made it
possible to identify all conventionally HER2-positive cases with our method. In
addition, we succeeded in automating a major part of the process from DNA
extraction to determination of HER2 gene status.
CONCLUSIONS: The introduction of ddPCR to determine the HER2 gene status in
breast cancer is feasible for use in clinical practice and might complement or
even replace conventional methods of examination in the future.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-016-4092-5 
PMID: 28039535 


122. J Virol Methods. 2017 Apr;242:1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2016.12.017. Epub 2016
Dec 27.

Assays for precise quantification of total (including short) and elongated HIV-1 
transcripts.

Kaiser P(1), Joshi SK(2), Kim P(2), Li P(2), Liu H(3), Rice AP(3), Wong JK(2),
Yukl SA(4).

Author information: 
(1)San Francisco Veterans Affairs (VA) Medical Center and University of
California, San Francisco (UCSF), 4150 Clement Street, 111W, San Francisco, CA,
94121, USA; Current address: Department of Infectious Diseases, Luzerner
Kantonsspital, 6000 Lucerne 16, Switzerland. (2)San Francisco Veterans Affairs
(VA) Medical Center and University of California, San Francisco (UCSF), 4150
Clement Street, 111W, San Francisco, CA, 94121, USA. (3)Department of Molecular
Virology and Microbiology, Baylor College of Medicine, One Baylor Plaza, MS
BCM385, Houston, TX, 77030, USA. (4)San Francisco Veterans Affairs (VA) Medical
Center and University of California, San Francisco (UCSF), 4150 Clement Street,
111W, San Francisco, CA, 94121, USA. Electronic address: Steven.yukl@ucsf.edu.

Despite intensive study, it is unclear which mechanisms are responsible for
latent HIV infection in vivo. One potential mechanism is inhibition of HIV
transcriptional elongation, which results in short abortive transcripts
containing the trans-activation response (TAR) region. Because the relative
levels of total (including short) and processive transcripts provide measures of 
HIV transcriptional initiation and elongation, there is a compelling need for
techniques that accurately measure both. Nonetheless, prior assays for total
transcripts have been semi-quantitative and have seen limited application to
patient samples. This manuscript reports the validation of quantitative reverse
transcription (RT) droplet digital PCR assays for measurement of total (TAR) and 
processive (R-U5/gag) HIV transcripts. Traditional RT priming strategies can
efficiently detect the TAR region on long HIV transcripts but detect <4% of true 
short transcripts. The TAR assay presented here utilizes an initial
polyadenylation step, which provides an accessible RT priming site and detects
short and long transcripts with approximately equal efficiency (70%). By applying
these assays to blood samples from 8 ART-treated HIV+ individuals, total HIV
transcripts were detected at levels >10-fold higher than elongated transcripts,
implying a substantial block to transcriptional elongation in vivo. This approach
may be applied to other difficult-to-prime RNA targets.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2016.12.017 
PMID: 28034670 


123. Mol Oncol. 2016 Oct 10. pii: S1574-7891(16)30110-7. doi:
10.1016/j.molonc.2016.10.001. [Epub ahead of print]

Somatic mutation detection using various targeted detection assays in paired
samples of circulating tumor DNA, primary tumor and metastases from patients
undergoing resection of colorectal liver metastases.

Beije N(1), Helmijr JC(2), Weerts MJ(2), Beaufort CM(2), Wiggin M(3), Marziali
A(3), Verhoef C(4), Sleijfer S(2), Jansen MP(2), Martens JW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology and Cancer Genomics Netherlands, Erasmus MC
Cancer Institute, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
Electronic address: n.beije@erasmusmc.nl. (2)Department of Medical Oncology and
Cancer Genomics Netherlands, Erasmus MC Cancer Institute, Erasmus University
Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. (3)Boreal Genomics, Vancouver, BC,
Canada. (4)Department of Surgical Oncology, Erasmus MC Cancer Institute, Erasmus 
University Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Assessing circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) is a promising method to evaluate somatic
mutations from solid tumors in a minimally-invasive way. In a group of twelve
metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) patients undergoing liver metastasectomy,
from each patient DNA from cell-free DNA (cfDNA), the primary tumor, metastatic
liver tissue, normal tumor-adjacent colon or liver tissue, and whole blood were
obtained. Investigated was the feasibility of a targeted NGS approach to identify
somatic mutations in ctDNA. This targeted NGS approach was also compared with NGS
preceded by mutant allele enrichment using synchronous coefficient of drag
alteration technology embodied in the OnTarget assay, and for selected mutations 
with digital PCR (dPCR). All tissue and cfDNA samples underwent IonPGM sequencing
for a CRC-specific 21-gene panel, which was analyzed using a standard and a
modified calling pipeline. In addition, cfDNA, whole blood and normal tissue DNA 
were analyzed with the OnTarget assay and with dPCR for specific mutations in
cfDNA as detected in the corresponding primary and/or metastatic tumor tissue.
NGS with modified calling was superior to standard calling and detected ctDNA in 
the cfDNA of 10 patients harboring mutations in APC, ATM, CREBBP, FBXW7, KRAS,
KMT2D, PIK3CA and TP53. Using this approach, variant allele frequencies in plasma
ranged predominantly from 1 to 10%, resulting in limited concordance between
ctDNA and the primary tumor (39%) and the metastases (55%). Concordance between
ctDNA and tissue markedly improved when ctDNA was evaluated for KRAS, PIK3CA and 
TP53 mutations by the OnTarget assay (80%) and digital PCR (93%). Additionally,
using these techniques mutations were observed in tumor-adjacent tissue with
normal morphology in the majority of patients, which were not observed in whole
blood. In conclusion, in these mCRC patients with oligometastatic disease NGS on 
cfDNA was feasible, but had limited sensitivity to detect all somatic mutations
present in tissue. Digital PCR and mutant allele enrichment before NGS appeared
to be more sensitive to detect somatic mutations.

Copyright © 2016 Federation of European Biochemical Societies. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molonc.2016.10.001 
PMID: 28029553 


124. PLoS Med. 2016 Dec 27;13(12):e1002206. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1002206.
eCollection 2016.

Genomic Analysis of Uterine Lavage Fluid Detects Early Endometrial Cancers and
Reveals a Prevalent Landscape of Driver Mutations in Women without
Histopathologic Evidence of Cancer: A Prospective Cross-Sectional Study.

Nair N(1), Camacho-Vanegas O(2), Rykunov D(2), Dashkoff M(2), Camacho SC(2),
Schumacher CA(3), Irish JC(3), Harkins TT(3), Freeman E(2), Garcia I(2), Pereira 
E(1), Kendall S(2), Belfer R(4), Kalir T(5), Sebra R(2), Reva B(2), Dottino P(1),
Martignetti JA(1,)(2,)(6,)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology and Reproductive Sciences, Icahn School
of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York, United States of America.
(2)Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount
Sinai, New York, New York, United States of America. (3)Swift Biosciences, Ann
Arbor, Michigan, United States of America. (4)Jefferson School of Medicine,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of America. (5)Department of Pathology,
Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York, United States of
America. (6)Department of Oncological Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount
Sinai, New York, New York, United States of America. (7)Laboratory for
Translational Research, Western Connecticut Health Network, Danbury, Connecticut,
United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Endometrial cancer is the most common gynecologic malignancy, and its
incidence and associated mortality are increasing. Despite the immediate need to 
detect these cancers at an earlier stage, there is no effective screening
methodology or protocol for endometrial cancer. The comprehensive, genomics-based
analysis of endometrial cancer by The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) revealed many of
the molecular defects that define this cancer. Based on these cancer genome
results, and in a prospective study, we hypothesized that the use of ultra-deep, 
targeted gene sequencing could detect somatic mutations in uterine lavage fluid
obtained from women undergoing hysteroscopy as a means of molecular screening and
diagnosis.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Uterine lavage and paired blood samples were collected and 
analyzed from 107 consecutive patients who were undergoing hysteroscopy and
curettage for diagnostic evaluation from this single-institution study. The
lavage fluid was separated into cellular and acellular fractions by
centrifugation. Cellular and cell-free DNA (cfDNA) were isolated from each
lavage. Two targeted next-generation sequencing (NGS) gene panels, one composed
of 56 genes and the other of 12 genes, were used for ultra-deep sequencing. To
rule out potential NGS-based errors, orthogonal mutation validation was performed
using digital PCR and Sanger sequencing. Seven patients were diagnosed with
endometrial cancer based on classic histopathologic analysis. Six of these
patients had stage IA cancer, and one of these cancers was only detectable as a
microscopic focus within a polyp. All seven patients were found to have
significant cancer-associated gene mutations in both cell pellet and cfDNA
fractions. In the four patients in whom adequate tumor sample was available, all 
tumor mutations above a specific allele fraction were present in the uterine
lavage DNA samples. Mutations originally only detected in lavage fluid fractions 
were later confirmed to be present in tumor but at allele fractions significantly
less than 1%. Of the remaining 95 patients diagnosed with benign or non-cancer
pathology, 44 had no significant cancer mutations detected. Intriguingly, 51
patients without histopathologic evidence of cancer had relatively high allele
fraction (1.0%-30.4%), cancer-associated mutations. Participants with detected
driver and potential driver mutations were significantly older (mean age mutated 
= 57.96, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 3.30-∞, mean age no mutations = 50.35;
p-value = 0.002; Benjamini-Hochberg [BH] adjusted p-value = 0.015) and more
likely to be post-menopausal (p-value = 0.004; BH-adjusted p-value = 0.015) than 
those without these mutations. No associations were detected between mutation
status and race/ethnicity, body mass index, diabetes, parity, and smoking status.
Long-term follow-up was not presently available in this prospective study for
those women without histopathologic evidence of cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: Using ultra-deep NGS, we identified somatic mutations in DNA
extracted both from cell pellets and a never previously reported cfDNA fraction
from the uterine lavage. Using our targeted sequencing approach, endometrial
driver mutations were identified in all seven women who received a cancer
diagnosis based on classic histopathology of tissue curettage obtained at the
time of hysteroscopy. In addition, relatively high allele fraction driver
mutations were identified in the lavage fluid of approximately half of the women 
without a cancer diagnosis. Increasing age and post-menopausal status were
associated with the presence of these cancer-associated mutations, suggesting the
prevalent existence of a premalignant landscape in women without clinical
evidence of cancer. Given that a uterine lavage can be easily and quickly
performed even outside of the operating room and in a physician's office-based
setting, our findings suggest the future possibility of this approach for
screening women for the earliest stages of endometrial cancer. However, our
findings suggest that further insight into development of cancer or its
interruption are needed before translation to the clinic.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1002206 
PMCID: PMC5189938
PMID: 28027320 

Conflict of interest statement: I have read the journal's policy and the authors 
of this manuscript have the following competing interests: TH, CAS, and JI are
paid employees of Swift Biosciences.


125. PLoS Med. 2016 Dec 27;13(12):e1002199. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1002199.
eCollection 2016.

Base-Position Error Rate Analysis of Next-Generation Sequencing Applied to
Circulating Tumor DNA in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer: A Prospective Study.

Pécuchet N(1,)(2), Zonta E(1), Didelot A(1), Combe P(2), Thibault C(2), Gibault
L(3), Lours C(4), Rozenholc Y(5), Taly V(1), Laurent-Puig P(1,)(4), Blons
H(1,)(4), Fabre E(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)INSERM UMR-S1147, CNRS SNC 5014, Equipe labélisée Ligue Contre le Cancer,
Université Sorbonne Paris Cité, Paris, France. (2)Department of Medical Oncology,
Hôpital Européen Georges Pompidou (HEGP), Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, 
Paris, France. (3)Department of Pathology, Hôpital Européen Georges Pompidou
(HEGP), Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Paris, France. (4)Department of
Biochemistry, Pharmacogenetics and Molecular Oncology, Hôpital Européen Georges
Pompidou (HEGP), Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Paris, France.
(5)MERIT-UMR IRD 216, Université Sorbonne Paris Cité, Paris, France.

BACKGROUND: Circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) is an approved noninvasive biomarker to
test for the presence of EGFR mutations at diagnosis or recurrence of lung
cancer. However, studies evaluating ctDNA as a noninvasive "real-time" biomarker 
to provide prognostic and predictive information in treatment monitoring have
given inconsistent results, mainly due to methodological differences. We have
recently validated a next-generation sequencing (NGS) approach to detect ctDNA.
Using this new approach, we evaluated the clinical usefulness of ctDNA monitoring
in a prospective observational series of patients with non-small cell lung cancer
(NSCLC).
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We recruited 124 patients with newly diagnosed advanced
NSCLC for ctDNA monitoring. The primary objective was to analyze the prognostic
value of baseline ctDNA on overall survival. ctDNA was assessed by ultra-deep
targeted NGS using our dedicated variant caller algorithm. Common mutations were 
validated by digital PCR. Out of the 109 patients with at least one follow-up
marker mutation, plasma samples were contributive at baseline (n = 105), at first
evaluation (n = 85), and at tumor progression (n = 66). We found that the
presence of ctDNA at baseline was an independent marker of poor prognosis, with a
median overall survival of 13.6 versus 21.5 mo (adjusted hazard ratio [HR] 1.82, 
95% CI 1.01-3.55, p = 0.045) and a median progression-free survival of 4.9 versus
10.4 mo (adjusted HR 2.14, 95% CI 1.30-3.67, p = 0.002). It was also related to
the presence of bone and liver metastasis. At first evaluation (E1) after
treatment initiation, residual ctDNA was an early predictor of treatment benefit 
as judged by best radiological response and progression-free survival. Finally,
negative ctDNA at E1 was associated with overall survival independently of
Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) (HR 3.27, 95% CI 1.66-6.40,
p < 0.001). Study population heterogeneity, over-representation of EGFR-mutated
patients, and heterogeneous treatment types might limit the conclusions of this
study, which require future validation in independent populations.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study of patients with newly diagnosed NSCLC, we found that 
ctDNA detection using targeted NGS was associated with poor prognosis. The
heterogeneity of lung cancer molecular alterations, particularly at time of
progression, impairs the ability of individual gene testing to accurately detect 
ctDNA in unselected patients. Further investigations are needed to evaluate the
clinical impact of earlier evaluation times at 1 or 2 wk. Supporting clinical
decisions, such as early treatment switching based on ctDNA positivity at first
evaluation, will require dedicated interventional studies.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1002199 
PMCID: PMC5189949
PMID: 28027313 

Conflict of interest statement: I have read the journal's policy and the authors 
of this manuscript have the following competing interests: VT received honorarium
from Boehringer Ingelheim and is a consultant for RainDance Technologies. HB is
an occasional consultant for AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim and Pfizer. PLP
received honorarium from RainDance Technologies, Life Technologies, ThermoFisher 
Diagnosis, AstraZeneca, and Boehringer Ingelheim. EF received honorarium from
Boeringher Ingelheim and Roche. LG received honorarium from Boeringher Ingelheim.
The other authors have declared that no competing interests exist.


126. Biomed Khim. 2016 Nov;62(6):638-644. doi: 10.18097/PBMC20166206638.

[Determination of EGFR gene somatic mutations in tissues and plasma of patients
with advanced non-small cell lung cancer].

[Article in Russian]

Brovkina OI(1), Gordiev MG(2), Toropovskiy AN(3), Khodyrev DS(1), Enikeev RF(2), 
Gusev OA(4), Shigapova LH(5), Nikitin AG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Federal Research and Clinical Center, FMBA of Russia, Moscow, Russia.
(2)Tatarstan Cancer Center, Kazan, Russia. (3)LLC "TestGene", Ulianovsk, Russia. 
(4)Kazan Federal University, Kazan, Russia. (5)Kazan Federal University, Kazan,
Russia; RIKEN, Yokohama, Japan.

The presence of activating mutations in the EGFR gene influences cell
proliferation, angiogenesis, and increases metastatic ability; it has a
significant impact on the choice of medical therapy of non-small cell lung cancer
(NSCLC). The use of targeted therapy with tyrosine kinase inhibitors requires
performance of appropriate genetic tests. The aim of this study was to design a
real-time PCR-based diagnostic kit for fast and cheap of EGFR mutations testing
in paraffin blocks and plasma, and kit validation using samples from patients
with NSCLC, and also comparative estimation of diagnostic features of real-time
PCR with wild type blocking and digital PCR for mutation testing in blood plasma.
The study included 156 patients with various types of adenocarcinoma
differentiation. It was designed a simple and efficient real-time PCR-based
method of detecting L858R activating mutation and del19 deletion in the EGFR gene
for DNA isolated from paraffin blocks. Kit for EGFR mutations was validated using
411 samples of paraffin blocks. The proposed system showed high efficiency for
DNA testing from paraffin blocks: a concordance with results of testing with
therascreen® EGFR RGQ PCR Kit ("Qiagen", Germany) was 100%. It has been shown the
possibility of using this test system for the detection of mutations in plasma.

Publisher: Mutatsii v gene EGFR vliiaiut na proliferatsiiu kletok, angiogenez i
sposobnost' nemelkokletochnogo raka legkikh (NMRL) k metastazirovaniiu, a takzhe 
na vybor lekarstvennoĭ terapii. Dlia targetnoĭ terapii, provodimoĭ s
ispol'zovaniem ingibitorov tirozinkinazy, neobkhodimo predvaritel'noe
geneticheskoe testirovanie bol'nykh NMRL. Tsel' dannoĭ raboty sostoiala v
razrabotke diagnosticheskoĭ test-sistemy dlia bystrogo i ékonomichnogo analiza
mutatsiĭ v gene EGFR na osnove metoda PTsR v real'nom vremeni s ispol'zovaniem
parafinovykh blokov i plazmy krovi. Provedena sravnitel'naia otsenka
diagnosticheskikh kharakteristik PTsR v real'nom vremeni s blokirovaniem
nukleotidnoĭ posledovatel'nosti dikogo tipa i tsifrovoĭ PTsR. V issledovanie
vkliucheny156 patsientov s adenokartsinomoĭ legkogo razlichnoĭ stepeni
differentsirovki. Razrabotan prostoĭ i proizvoditel'nyĭ metod vyiavleniia s
pomoshch'iuPTsR v real'nom vremeni aktiviruiushcheĭ mutatsii L858R i deletsiĭ
del19 gena EGFR v DNK, vydelennoĭ iz parafinovykh blokov ili plazmy krovi.
Test-sistema validirovana na 411 obraztsakh parafinovykh blokov. Predlozhennaia
sistema pokazala vysokuiu éffektivnost' analiza DNK iz parafinovykh blokov:
konkordantnost' s rezul'tatami analiza, provedennogo s pomoshch'iu nabora
therascreen® EGFR RGQ PCR Kit (“Qiagen”, Germaniia), sostavila 100%. Pokazana
vozmozhnost' ispol'zovaniia dannoĭ test-sistemy dlia vyiavleniia mutatsiĭ v
plazme krovi.

PMID: 28026806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2016 Dec 9;6:179. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2016.00179.
eCollection 2016.

Tissue-Associated Bacterial Alterations in Rectal Carcinoma Patients Revealed by 
16S rRNA Community Profiling.

Thomas AM(1), Jesus EC(2), Lopes A(3), Aguiar S Jr(3), Begnami MD(4), Rocha
RM(5), Carpinetti PA(6), Camargo AA(6), Hoffmann C(7), Freitas HC(8), Silva
IT(9), Nunes DN(10), Setubal JC(11), Dias-Neto E(12).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Genomics Laboratory, CIPE/A.C. Camargo Cancer CenterSão Paulo, Brazil;
Departamento de Bioquímica, Instituto de Química, Universidade de São PauloSão
Paulo, Brazil; Curso de Pós-Graduação em Bioinformática, Universidade de São
PauloSão Paulo, Brazil. (2)Medical Genomics Laboratory, CIPE/A.C. Camargo Cancer 
CenterSão Paulo, Brazil; Department of Pelvic Surgery, A.C. Camargo Cancer
CenterSão Paulo, Brazil. (3)Department of Pelvic Surgery, A.C. Camargo Cancer
Center São Paulo, Brazil. (4)Department of Pathology, A.C. Camargo Cancer Center 
São Paulo, Brazil. (5)Laboratory of Molecular Gynecology, Department of
Gynecology, Medicine College, Federal University of São Paulo São Paulo, Brazil. 
(6)Centro de Oncologia Molecular, Hospital Sirio-Libanês São Paulo, Brazil.
(7)Departamento de Alimentos e Nutrição Experimental, Faculdade de Ciências
Farmacêuticas, Food Research Center (FoRC), Universidade de São Paulo São Paulo, 
Brazil. (8)Medical Genomics Laboratory, CIPE/A.C. Camargo Cancer CenterSão Paulo,
Brazil; Department of Clinical Oncology, A.C. Camargo Cancer CenterSão Paulo,
Brazil. (9)Laboratory of Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, A.C. Camargo
Cancer Center São Paulo, Brazil. (10)Medical Genomics Laboratory, CIPE/A.C.
Camargo Cancer Center São Paulo, Brazil. (11)Departamento de Bioquímica,
Instituto de Química, Universidade de São PauloSão Paulo, Brazil; Biocomplexity
Institute, Virginia TechBlacksburg, VA, USA. (12)Medical Genomics Laboratory,
CIPE/A.C. Camargo Cancer CenterSão Paulo, Brazil; Laboratory of Neurosciences
(LIM-27) Alzira Denise Hertzog Silva, Institute of Psychiatry, Faculdade de
Medicina, Universidade de São PauloSão Paulo, Brazil.

Sporadic and inflammatory forms of colorectal cancer (CRC) account for more than 
80% of cases. Recent publications have shown mechanistic evidence for the
involvement of gut bacteria in the development of both CRC-forms. Whereas, colon 
and rectal cancer have been routinely studied together as CRC, increasing
evidence show these to be distinct diseases. Also, the common use of fecal
samples to study microbial communities may reflect disease state but possibly not
the tumor microenvironment. We performed this study to evaluate differences in
bacterial communities found in tissue samples of 18 rectal-cancer subjects when
compared to 18 non-cancer controls. Samples were collected during exploratory
colonoscopy (non-cancer group) or during surgery for tumor excision
(rectal-cancer group). High throughput 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing of the V4-V5 
region was conducted on the Ion PGM platform, reads were filtered using Qiime and
clustered using UPARSE. We observed significant increases in species richness and
diversity in rectal cancer samples, evidenced by the total number of OTUs and the
Shannon and Simpson indexes. Enterotyping analysis divided our cohort into two
groups, with the majority of rectal cancer samples clustering into one
enterotype, characterized by a greater abundance of Bacteroides and Dorea. At the
phylum level, rectal-cancer samples had increased abundance of candidate phylum
OD1 (also known as Parcubacteria) whilst non-cancer samples had increased
abundance of Planctomycetes. At the genera level, rectal-cancer samples had
higher abundances of Bacteroides, Phascolarctobacterium, Parabacteroides,
Desulfovibrio, and Odoribacter whereas non-cancer samples had higher abundances
of Pseudomonas, Escherichia, Acinetobacter, Lactobacillus, and Bacillus. Two
Bacteroides fragilis OTUs were more abundant among rectal-cancer patients seen
through 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing, whose presence was confirmed by
immunohistochemistry and enrichment verified by digital droplet PCR. Our findings
point to increased bacterial richness and diversity in rectal cancer, along with 
several differences in microbial community composition. Our work is the first to 
present evidence for a possible role of bacteria such as B. fragilis and the
phylum Parcubacteria in rectal cancer, emphasizing the need to study
tissue-associated bacteria and specific regions of the gastrointestinal tract in 
order to better understand the possible links between the microbiota and rectal
cancer.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2016.00179 
PMCID: PMC5145865
PMID: 28018861 


128. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2017 Feb;24(6):5370-5380. doi:
10.1007/s11356-016-8211-y. Epub 2016 Dec 24.

Molecular-based detection of potentially pathogenic bacteria in membrane
bioreactor (MBR) systems treating municipal wastewater: a case study.

Harb M(1), Hong PY(2).

Author information: 
(1)Water Desalination and Reuse Center, Environmental Science and Engineering,
King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST), 4700 King Abdullah
Boulevard, Thuwal, 23955-6900, Saudi Arabia. (2)Water Desalination and Reuse
Center, Environmental Science and Engineering, King Abdullah University of
Science and Technology (KAUST), 4700 King Abdullah Boulevard, Thuwal, 23955-6900,
Saudi Arabia. peiying.hong@kaust.edu.sa.

Although membrane bioreactor (MBR) systems provide better removal of pathogens
compared to conventional activated sludge processes, they do not achieve total
log removal. The present study examines two MBR systems treating municipal
wastewater, one a full-scale MBR plant and the other a lab-scale anaerobic MBR.
Both of these systems were operated using microfiltration (MF) polymeric
membranes. High-throughput sequencing and digital PCR quantification were
utilized to monitor the log removal values (LRVs) of associated pathogenic
species and their abundance in the MBR effluents. Results showed that specific
removal rates vary widely regardless of the system employed. Each of the two MBR 
effluents' microbial communities contained genera associated with opportunistic
pathogens (e.g., Pseudomonas, Acinetobacter) with a wide range of log reduction
values (< 2 to >5.5). Digital PCR further confirmed that these bacterial groups
included pathogenic species, in several instances at LRVs different than those
for their respective genera. These results were used to evaluate the potential
risks associated both with the reuse of the MBR effluents for irrigation purposes
and with land application of the activated sludge from the full-scale MBR system.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-016-8211-y 
PMID: 28013467 


129. J Mol Diagn. 2017 Mar;19(2):236-243. doi: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2016.10.006. Epub 2016
Dec 22.

Accurate Quantification of T Cells by Measuring Loss of Germline T-Cell Receptor 
Loci with Generic Single Duplex Droplet Digital PCR Assays.

Zoutman WH(1), Nell RJ(2), Versluis M(2), van Steenderen D(2), Lalai RN(2),
Out-Luiting JJ(1), de Lange MJ(2), Vermeer MH(1), Langerak AW(3), van der Velden 
PA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, the
Netherlands. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Leiden University Medical Center,
Leiden, the Netherlands. (3)Laboratory for Medical Immunology, Department of
Immunology, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, Rotterdam, the
Netherlands. (4)Department of Ophthalmology, Leiden University Medical Center,
Leiden, the Netherlands. Electronic address: velden@lumc.nl.

Quantifying T cells accurately in a variety of tissues of benign, inflammatory,
or malignant origin can be of great importance in a variety of clinical
applications. Flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry are considered to be
gold-standard methods for T-cell quantification. However, these methods require
fresh, frozen, or fixated cells and tissue of a certain quality. In addition,
conventional and droplet digital PCR (ddPCR), whether followed by deep sequencing
techniques, have been used to elucidate T-cell content by focusing on rearranged 
T-cell receptor (TCR) genes. These approaches typically target the whole TCR
repertoire, thereby supplying additional information about TCR use. We
alternatively developed and validated two novel generic single duplex ddPCR
assays to quantify T cells accurately by measuring loss of specific germline TCR 
loci and compared them with flow cytometry-based quantification. These assays
target sequences between the Dδ2 and Dδ3 genes (TRD locus) and Dβ1 and Jβ1.1
genes (TRB locus) that become deleted systematically early during lymphoid
differentiation. Because these ddPCR assays require small amounts of DNA instead 
of freshly isolated, frozen, or fixated material, initially unanalyzable (scarce)
specimens can be assayed from now on, supplying valuable information about T-cell
content. Our ddPCR method provides a novel and sensitive way for quantifying T
cells relatively fast, accurate, and independent of the cellular context.

Copyright © 2017 American Society for Investigative Pathology and the Association
for Molecular Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2016.10.006 
PMID: 28012713 


130. Lab Chip. 2017 Jan 17;17(2):235-240. doi: 10.1039/c6lc01305h.

Centrifugal micro-channel array droplet generation for highly parallel digital
PCR.

Chen Z(1), Liao P(1), Zhang F(1), Jiang M(1), Zhu Y(2), Huang Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biodynamic Optical Imaging Center (BIOPIC), Beijing Advanced Innovation Center
for Genomics (ICG), Peking-Tsinghua Center for Life Sciences, and College of
Engineering, Peking University, Beijing, China. yanyi@pku.edu.cn. (2)Integrated
Science Program, Yuanpei College, Peking University, Beijing, China.

Stable water-in-oil emulsion is essential to digital PCR and many other
bioanalytical reactions that employ droplets as microreactors. We developed a
novel technology to produce monodisperse emulsion droplets with high efficiency
and high throughput using a bench-top centrifuge. Upon centrifugal spinning, the 
continuous aqueous phase is dispersed into monodisperse droplet jets in air
through a micro-channel array (MiCA) and then submerged into oil as a stable
emulsion. We performed dPCR reactions with a high dynamic range through the MiCA 
approach, and demonstrated that this cost-effective method not only eliminates
the usage of complex microfluidic devices and control systems, but also greatly
suppresses the loss of materials and cross-contamination. MiCA-enabled highly
parallel emulsion generation combines both easiness and robustness of picoliter
droplet production, and breaks the technical challenges by using conventional lab
equipment and supplies.

DOI: 10.1039/c6lc01305h 
PMID: 28009866 


131. Onco Targets Ther. 2016 Dec 13;9:7545-7553. doi: 10.2147/OTT.S119027. eCollection
2016.

Different levels of serum microRNAs in prostate cancer and benign prostatic
hyperplasia: evaluation of potential diagnostic and prognostic role.

Cochetti G(1), Poli G(2), Guelfi G(3), Boni A(1), Egidi MG(1), Mearini E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgical and Biomedical Sciences, Institution of Urological,
Andrological Surgery and Minimally Invasive Techniques. (2)Department of
Experimental Medicine, Section of Terni. (3)Department of Veterinary Medicine,
University of Perugia, Perugia, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: Diagnosis of prostate cancer (PCa) is based on prostate biopsy that
is performed when prostate specific antigen (PSA) is persistently altered over
time and/or abnormal digital rectal examination is found. Serum PSA levels
increase in both PCa and benign prostatic hyperplasia, leading to an increased
number of unnecessary biopsies. There is an urgent need to unravel PCa-specific
molecular signatures.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This study aimed at characterizing a panel of circulating
micro RNAs (miRNAs) that could distinguish PCa from benign prostatic hyperplasia 
in a population of age-matched patients with increased PSA levels. Both miRNAs
targeting genes involved in PCa onset and miRNAs whose role in PCa has been
highlighted in other studies were included. For this purpose, let-7c, let-7e,
let-7i, miR-26a-5p, miR-26b-5p, miR-24-3p, miR-23b-3p, miR-27-b-3p, miR-106a-5p, 
miR-20b-5p, miR-18b-5p, miR-19b-2-5p, miR-363-3p, miR-497, miR-195, miR-25-3p,
miR-30c-5p, miR-622, miR-874-3p, miR-346 and miR-940 were assayed through
real-time PCR in 64 patients with PCa and compared with 60 patients with benign
prostatic hyperplasia. The ability of miRNAs to predict the stage of disease was 
also analyzed.
RESULTS: Let-7c, let-7e, let-7i, miR-26a-5p, miR-26b-5p, miR-18b-5p and miR-25-3p
were able to discriminate patients with PCa from those harboring benign prostatic
hyperplasia, both presenting altered PSA levels (>3 ng/mL). MiR-25-3p and
miR-18b-5p showed the highest sensitivity and specificity to predict PCa,
respectively. The combination of these two miRNAs improved the overall
sensitivity. A correlation between pathological Gleason score and miRNA
expression levels was reported; miR-363-3p, miR-26a-5p, miR-26b-5p, miR-106a-5p, 
miR-18b-5p, miR-25-3p and let-7i decreased in expression concomitantly with an
increase in malignancy.
CONCLUSION: This study confirms serum miRNAs to be reliable candidates for the
development of minimally invasive biomarkers for the diagnosis and prognosis of
PCa, particularly in those cases where PSA acts as a flawed marker.

DOI: 10.2147/OTT.S119027 
PMCID: PMC5167485
PMID: 28008272 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in
this work.


132. Toxicol Lett. 2017 Feb 5;267:45-52. doi: 10.1016/j.toxlet.2016.12.011. Epub 2016 
Dec 19.

In vitro combinatory effects of the Alternaria mycotoxins alternariol and
altertoxin II and potentially involved miRNAs.

Vejdovszky K(1), Sack M(2), Jarolim K(1), Aichinger G(1), Somoza MM(2), Marko
D(3).

Author information: 
(1)University of Vienna, Faculty of Chemistry, Department of Food Chemistry and
Toxicology, Waehringer Str. 38, A-1090 Vienna, Austria. (2)University of Vienna, 
Faculty of Chemistry, Department of Inorganic Chemistry, Althanstrasse 14, A-1090
Vienna, Austria. (3)University of Vienna, Faculty of Chemistry, Department of
Food Chemistry and Toxicology, Waehringer Str. 38, A-1090 Vienna, Austria.
Electronic address: doris.marko@univie.ac.at.

Alternariol (AOH) and altertoxin II (ATX II) are mycotoxins formed by Alternaria 
spp. Since they are expected to co-occur in Alternaria-infested food and feed, we
addressed the question of combinatory effects. In addition, potentially involved 
regulatory microRNAs were surveyed in an exploratory approach. Cytotoxicity
measurements in constant ratio combinations of 1:10 or 1:1 (ATX II: AOH) mainly
revealed additive effects in HepG2, HT29 and HCEC-1CT cells. Yet, in specific
high doses antagonism was found. Microarray analysis of miRNA expression profiles
in HepG2 cells indicated different patterns of miRNA regulation by AOH and ATX
II, including several miRNA species for which no distinct functions are currently
known. Among others, miR-4654, miR-4715_3p and miR-6720_3p were up-regulated by
AOH and miR-5583_5p was down-regulated by ATX II. Additionally, miR-1323,
involved in hindering DNA repair mechanisms, was decreased by ATX II. Digital
droplet PCR (ddPCR) analysis of selected miRNAs indicated regulation of miR-29a
by AOH, which might play a role in AOH-induced apoptosis. miR-192 and miR-224
regulation was associated with antagonistic cytotoxic effects of AOH and ATX II
combinations. Our study represents the first evaluation on combinatory effects of
AOH and ATX II.

Copyright © 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.toxlet.2016.12.011 
PMID: 28007639  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Harmful Algae. 2016 Jan;51:97-106. doi: 10.1016/j.hal.2015.10.014. Epub 2015 Dec 
4.

Easy detection of multiple Alexandrium species using DNA chromatography chip.

Nagai S(1), Miyamoto S(2), Ino K(2), Tajimi S(3), Nishi H(4), Tomono J(2).

Author information: 
(1)National Research Institute of Fisheries Science, Research Center for Aquatic 
Genomics, 2-12-4 Fukuura, Kanazawa-ku, Yokohama 236-8648, Kanagawa, Japan.
Electronic address: snagai@affrc.go.jp. (2)Kaneka Corporation, Medical Device
Development Laboratories, 1-8 Mayamae-cho, Takasago 676-8688, Hyogo, Japan.
(3)Kumamoto Prefectural Fisheries Research Center, 2450-2 Naka, Oyano-machi,
Kami-amakusa 869-3603, Kumamoto, Japan. (4)Kagoshima Prefectural Fisheries
Technology and Development Center, 160-10 Takadaue, Iwamoto, Ibusuki 891-0315,
Kagoshima, Japan.

In this study, the Kaneka DNA chromatography chip (KDCC) for the Alexandrium
species was successfully developed for simultaneous detection of five Alexandrium
species. This method utilizes a DNA-DNA hybridization technology. In the PCR
process, specifically designed tagged-primers are used, i.e. a forward primer
consisting of a tag domain, which can conjugate with gold nanocolloids on the
chip, and a primer domain, which can anneal/amplify the target sequence. However,
the reverse primer consists of a tag domain, which can hybridize to the
solid-phased capture probe on the chip, and a primer domain, which can
anneal/amplify the target sequence. As a result, a red line that originates from 
gold nanocolloids appears as a positive signal on the chip, and the amplicon is
detected visually by the naked eye. This technique is simple, because it is
possible to visually detect the target species soon after (<5min) the application
of 2μL of PCR amplicon and 65μL of development buffer to the sample pad of the
chip. Further, this technique is relatively inexpensive and does not require
expensive laboratory equipment, such as real-time Q-PCR machines or DNA
microarray detectors, but a thermal cycler. Regarding the detection limit of KDCC
for the five Alexandrium species, it varied among species and it was <0.1-10pg
and equivalent to 5-500 copies of rRNA genes, indicating that the technique is
sensitive enough for practical use to detect several cells of the target species 
from 1L of seawater. The detection sensitivity of KDCC was also evaluated with
two different techniques, i.e. a multiplex-PCR and a digital DNA hybridization by
digital DNA chip analyzer (DDCA), using natural plankton assemblages. There was
no significant difference in the detection sensitivity among the three
techniques, suggesting KDCC can be readily used to monitor the HAB species.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hal.2015.10.014 
PMID: 28003065 


134. Expert Rev Anti Infect Ther. 2017 Apr;15(4):387-400. doi:
10.1080/14787210.2017.1271711. Epub 2016 Dec 24.

Consolidation of molecular testing in clinical virology.

Scagnolari C(1), Turriziani O(1), Monteleone K(1), Pierangeli A(1), Antonelli
G(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Laboratory of Virology, Department of Molecular Medicine, and Istituto
Pasteur Italia-Cenci Bolognetti Foundation , 'Sapienza' University of Rome , Rome
, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: The development of quantitative methods for the detection of viral 
nucleic acids have significantly improved our ability to manage disease
progression and to assess the efficacy of antiviral treatment. Moreover, major
advances in molecular technologies during the last decade have allowed the
identification of new host genetic markers associated with antiviral drug
response but have also strongly revolutionized the way we see and perform virus
diagnostics in the coming years. Areas covered: In this review, we describe the
history and development of virology diagnostic methods, dedicating particular
emphasis on the gradual evolution and recent advances toward the introduction of 
multiparametric platforms for the syndromic diagnosis. In parallel, we outline
the consolidation of viral genome quantification practice in different clinical
settings. Expert commentary: More rapid, accurate and affordable molecular
technology can be predictable with particular emphasis on emerging techniques
(next generation sequencing, digital PCR, point of care testing and syndromic
diagnosis) to simplify viral diagnosis in the next future.

DOI: 10.1080/14787210.2017.1271711 
PMID: 28002969 


135. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Dec 1;57(15):6902-6908. doi:
10.1167/iovs.16-20585.

Large Deletions of TSPAN12 Cause Familial Exudative Vitreoretinopathy (FEVR).

Seo SH(1), Kim MJ(2), Park SW(3), Kim JH(4), Yu YS(4), Song JY(2), Cho SI(2), Ahn
JH(5), Oh YH(5), Lee JS(2), Lee S(6), Seong MW(2), Park SS(7), Kim JY(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Seoul National University Boramae Medical
Center, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul
National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (3)Department of
Biomedical Sciences, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul
National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (5)Biomedical Research
Institute, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea. (6)Department of
Laboratory Medicine, Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University School of 
Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (7)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Seoul National
University Hospital, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea 
5Biomedical Research Institute, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.

Purpose: Familial exudative vitreoretinopathy (FEVR) is a rare, hereditary visual
disorder. The gene TSPAN12 is associated with autosomal dominant inheritance of
FEVR. The prevalence and impact of large deletions/duplications of TSPAN12 on
FEVR patients is unknown. To glean better insight of TSPAN12 on FEVR pathology,
herein, we describe three FEVR patients with TSPAN12 deletions.
Methods: Thirty-three Korean FEVR patients, who previously screened negative for 
TSPAN12 mutations, mutations in other FEVR-associated genes such as NDP, FZD4,
LRP5, and large deletions and duplications of NDP, FZD4, and LRP5, were selected 
for TSPAN12 large deletion and duplication analyses. Semiquantitative multiplex
PCR for TSPAN12 gene dosage analyses were performed, followed by droplet digital 
PCR (ddPCR) for validation.
Results: Among the 33 patients, three patients were confirmed to carry large
TSPAN12 deletions. Two of them had whole-gene deletions of TSPAN12, and the other
patient possessed a deletion of TSPAN12 in exon 4. FEVR severity detected in
these patients was not more severe than in a patient with TSPAN12 point mutation.
Conclusions: Regarding previously reported proportions of FEVR-associated genes
contributing to the disorder's autosomal dominant inheritance pattern in Korea,
we determined that patients with TSPAN12 large deletions were more common than
patients with single nucleotide variants in TSPAN12. Evaluating TSPAN12 large
deletions and duplications should be considered in FEVR screening and diagnosis
as well as in routine genetic workups for FEVR patients.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.16-20585 
PMID: 28002565 


136. Cancer Med. 2017 Jan;6(1):154-162. doi: 10.1002/cam4.978. Epub 2016 Dec 20.

A Comparison of ddPCR and ARMS for detecting EGFR T790M status in ctDNA from
advanced NSCLC patients with acquired EGFR-TKI resistance.

Wang W(1), Song Z(1), Zhang Y(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemotherapy, Zhejiang Cancer Hospital, Hangzhou, China. (2)Key 
Laboratory Diagnosis and Treatment Technology on Thoracic Oncology, Zhejiang,
China.

A sensitive and convenient method for detecting epidermal growth factor receptor 
(EGFR) T790M mutations from circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) in advanced non-small
cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients with acquired EGFR-TKI resistance would be
desirable to direct patient sequential treatment strategy. A comparison of two
platforms for detecting EGFR mutations in plasma ctDNA was undertaken. Plasma
samples and tumor samples were collected from patients with acquired EGFR-TKI
resistance in Zhejiang Cancer Hospital from December 2014 to December 2015.
Extracted ctDNA was analyzed using two platforms (Droplet Digital PCR and ARMS
[dPCR]). A total of 108 patients were enrolled in this study. One hundred and
eight patient plasma samples were detected by ddPCR and 75 were detected by ARMS.
And 16 patients obtained tissue re-biopsy, using ARMS assay for detecting EGFR
T790M mutation. In all, 43.7% (47/108) had acquired T790M mutation by ddPCR. In
75 patient plasma samples, comparing ddPCR with ARMS, the rates of T790M mutation
were 46.7% (35/75) and 25.3% (19/75) by ddPCR and ARMS, respectively. Of all, 16 
patients both had tumor and plasma samples, the T790M mutation rates were 56.3%
(9/16) by ARMS in tissue and 50.5% (8/16) by ddPCR in plasma ctDNA. The
progression mode tended to gradual progression in T790M mutation patients
(40.4%), but the T790M negative was inclined to the mode of dramatic progression 
(39.3%). The patients with T790M-positive tumors had a longer time to disease
progression after treatment with EGFR-TKIs (median, 13.1 months vs. 10.8 months; 
P = 0.010) and overall survival (median, 35.3 months vs. 30.3 months; P = 0.214) 
compared with those with T790M-negative patients. Our study demonstrates ddPCR
assay may provide a highly sensitive method to detect EGFR T790M gene in plasma. 
And T790M-positive patients have better clinical outcomes to EGFR-TKIs than
T790M-negative patients.

© 2016 The Authors. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cam4.978 
PMCID: PMC5269560
PMID: 28000387 


137. Biomarkers. 2016 Dec 21:1-7. doi: 10.1080/1354750X.2016.1269202. [Epub ahead of
print]

Investigation of transrenal KRAS mutation in late stage NSCLC patients correlates
to disease progression.

Wang X(1), Meng Q(1), Wang C(1), Li F(1), Zhu Z(1), Liu S(1), Shi Y(1), Huang
J(1), Chen S(1), Li C(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Respiratory Medicine , Wuhan No. 6 Hospital, Affiliated
Hospital to Jianghan University , Wuhan , People's Republic of China.

PURPOSE: Using transrenal DNA to detect KRAS mutations in non-small cell lung
cancer (NSCLC), the study addressed the clinical impact for longitudinal
monitoring and prognostic value for disease outcome.
METHODS: Digital droplet PCR was used to detect the mutant DNA. A total of 200
NSCLC patients were recruited with varying molecular profiles. To ascertain the
specificity of transrenal DNA to accurately profile the disease, primary tissues 
were compared. Subsequently, serial samplings were performed at different
treatment cycles to gauge the predictive value.
RESULTS: Transrenal DNA was successfully detected in all 200 patients. Overall
concordance rate for mutant KRAS DNA within urine specimens and primary tissue
biopsies was 95% (k = 0.87; 95% CI: 0.82-0.95). Patients with positive results at
baseline had lower median overall survival (OS) than the wildtype group. More
importantly, longitudinal monitoring of urine specimens showed an increase in the
quantity of transrenal DNA, which were highly associated with disease progression
and outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study showed a highly associative link to the patient's tumor
KRAS profile. Monitoring its variations aided in stratifying patients with worse 
outcome. Urinary specimens that can be extracted non-invasively presents new
opportunities to track patients with KRAS mutation undergoing therapy.

DOI: 10.1080/1354750X.2016.1269202 
PMID: 27998182 


138. Eur J Cancer. 2017 Jan;71:43-50. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2016.10.032. Epub 2016 Dec
18.

Digital PCR assessment of MGMT promoter methylation coupled with reduced protein 
expression optimises prediction of response to alkylating agents in metastatic
colorectal cancer patients.

Sartore-Bianchi A(1), Pietrantonio F(2), Amatu A(1), Milione M(3), Cassingena
A(1), Ghezzi S(1), Caporale M(2), Berenato R(2), Falcomatà C(4), Pellegrinelli
A(3), Bardelli A(4), Nichelatti M(1), Tosi F(1), De Braud F(2), Di Nicolantonio
F(4), Barault L(5), Siena S(6).

Author information: 
(1)Niguarda Cancer Center, Grande Ospedale Metropolitano Niguarda, Milan, Italy. 
(2)Medical Oncology Department, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori,
Milan, Italy. (3)Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Department, Fondazione IRCCS
Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Milan, Italy. (4)Department of Oncology,
University of Torino, SP 142 Km 3.95, 10060 Candiolo, Torino, Italy; Candiolo
Cancer Institute-FPO, IRCCS, SP 142 Km 3.95, 10060 Candiolo, Torino, Italy.
(5)Department of Oncology, University of Torino, SP 142 Km 3.95, 10060 Candiolo, 
Torino, Italy; Candiolo Cancer Institute-FPO, IRCCS, SP 142 Km 3.95, 10060
Candiolo, Torino, Italy. Electronic address: ludovic.barault@unito.it.
(6)Niguarda Cancer Center, Grande Ospedale Metropolitano Niguarda, Milan, Italy; 
Università degli Studi di Milano, Milan, Italy.

BACKGROUND: O(6)-methylguanine-DNA-methyltransferase (MGMT) is a repair protein, 
and its deficiency makes tumours more susceptible to the cytotoxic effect of
alkylating agents. Five clinical trials with temozolomide or dacarbazine have
been performed in metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) with selection based on
methyl-specific PCR (MSP) testing with modest results. We hypothesised that
mitigated results are consequences of unspecific patient selection and that
alternative methodologies for MGMT testing such as immunohistochemistry (IHC) and
digital polymerase chain reaction (PCR) could enhance patient enrolment.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Formalin-fixed paraffin embedded archival tumour tissue
samples from four phase II studies of temozolomide or dacarbazine in MGMT
MSP-positive mCRCs were analysed by IHC for MGMT protein expression and by
methyl-BEAMing (MB) for percentage of promoter methylation. Pooled data were then
retrospectively analysed according to objective response rate, progression-free
survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS).
RESULTS: One hundred and five patients were included in the study. Twelve had
achieved partial response (PR) (11.4%), 24 stable disease (SD; 22.9%) and 69
progressive disease (PD; 65.7%). Patients with PR/SD had lower IHC scores and
higher MB levels than those with PD. MGMT expression by IHC was negatively and MB
levels positively associated with PFS (p < 0.001 and 0.004, respectively), but
not with OS. By combining both assays, IHC low/MB high patients displayed an 87% 
reduction in the hazard of progression (p < 0.001) and a 77% in the hazard for
death (p = 0.001).
CONCLUSION: In mCRC selected for MGMT deficiency by MSP, IHC and MB testing
improve clinical outcome to alkylating agents. Their combination could enhance
patient selection in this setting.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2016.10.032 
PMID: 27997874 


139. PLoS Med. 2016 Dec 20;13(12):e1002198. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1002198.
eCollection 2016.

Exploratory Analysis of TP53 Mutations in Circulating Tumour DNA as Biomarkers of
Treatment Response for Patients with Relapsed High-Grade Serous Ovarian
Carcinoma: A Retrospective Study.

Parkinson CA(1,)(2,)(3,)(4,)(5), Gale D(1,)(5), Piskorz AM(1,)(5), Biggs
H(2,)(3,)(5), Hodgkin C(2,)(5), Addley H(4,)(5), Freeman S(4,)(5), Moyle
P(4,)(5), Sala E(4), Sayal K(1), Hosking K(2,)(3,)(5), Gounaris I(1,)(5),
Jimenez-Linan M(4,)(5), Earl HM(2,)(3,)(4,)(5), Qian W(4,)(5), Rosenfeld
N(1,)(5), Brenton JD(1,)(2,)(3,)(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge,
United Kingdom. (2)Department of Oncology, Hutchison/MRC Research Centre,
University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom. (3)NIHR Cambridge Biomedical 
Research Centre, Cambridge, United Kingdom. (4)Cambridge University Hospitals NHS
Foundation Trust, Cambridge, United Kingdom. (5)Cancer Research UK Major
Centre-Cambridge, Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute, Cambridge, United
Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Circulating tumour DNA (ctDNA) carrying tumour-specific sequence
alterations may provide a minimally invasive means to dynamically assess tumour
burden and response to treatment in cancer patients. Somatic TP53 mutations are a
defining feature of high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSOC). We tested
whether these mutations could be used as personalised markers to monitor tumour
burden and early changes as a predictor of response and time to progression
(TTP).
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We performed a retrospective analysis of serial plasma
samples collected during routine clinical visits from 40 patients with HGSOC
undergoing heterogeneous standard of care treatment. Patient-specific TP53 assays
were developed for 31 unique mutations identified in formalin-fixed
paraffin-embedded tumour DNA from these patients. These assays were used to
quantify ctDNA in 318 plasma samples using microfluidic digital PCR. The TP53
mutant allele fraction (TP53MAF) was compared to serum CA-125, the current
gold-standard response marker for HGSOC in blood, as well as to disease volume on
computed tomography scans by volumetric analysis. Changes after one cycle of
treatment were compared with TTP. The median TP53MAF prior to treatment in 51
relapsed treatment courses was 8% (interquartile range [IQR] 1.2%-22%) compared
to 0.7% (IQR 0.3%-2.0%) for seven untreated newly diagnosed stage IIIC/IV
patients. TP53MAF correlated with volumetric measurements (Pearson r = 0.59, p < 
0.001), and this correlation improved when patients with ascites were excluded (r
= 0.82). The ratio of TP53MAF to volume of disease was higher in relapsed
patients (0.04% per cm3) than in untreated patients (0.0008% per cm3, p = 0.004).
In nearly all relapsed patients with disease volume > 32 cm3, ctDNA was detected 
at ≥20 amplifiable copies per millilitre of plasma. In 49 treatment courses for
relapsed disease, pre-treatment TP53MAF concentration, but not CA-125, was
associated with TTP. Response to chemotherapy was seen earlier with ctDNA, with a
median time to nadir of 37 d (IQR 28-54) compared with a median time to nadir of 
84 d (IQR 42-116) for CA-125. In 32 relapsed treatment courses evaluable for
response after one cycle of chemotherapy, a decrease in TP53MAF of >60% was an
independent predictor of TTP in multivariable analysis (hazard ratio 0.22, 95% CI
0.07-0.67, p = 0.008). Conversely, a decrease in TP53MAF of ≤60% was associated
with poor response and identified cases with TTP < 6 mo with 71% sensitivity (95%
CI 42%-92%) and 88% specificity (95% CI 64%-99%). Specificity was improved when
patients with recent drainage of ascites were excluded. Ascites drainage led to a
reduction of TP53MAF concentration. The limitations of this study include
retrospective design, small sample size, and heterogeneity of treatment within
the cohort.
CONCLUSIONS: In this retrospective study, we demonstrated that ctDNA is
correlated with volume of disease at the start of treatment in women with HGSOC
and that a decrease of ≤60% in TP53MAF after one cycle of chemotherapy was
associated with shorter TTP. These results provide evidence that ctDNA has the
potential to be a highly specific early molecular response marker in HGSOC and
warrants further investigation in larger cohorts receiving uniform treatment.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1002198 
PMCID: PMC5172526
PMID: 27997533 

Conflict of interest statement: We have read the journal's policy and the authors
of this manuscript have the following competing interests: DG, NR and JDB are
co-founders, shareholders and officers/consultants of Inivata Ltd, a cancer
genomics company that commercialises ctDNA analysis.


140. Sci Rep. 2016 Dec;6(1):13. Epub 2016 Dec 19.

Comparison of Circulating Tumour Cells and Circulating Cell-Free Epstein-Barr
Virus DNA in Patients with Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma Undergoing Radiotherapy.

Vo JH(1), Nei WL(2), Hu M(1), Phyo WM(1), Wang F(2), Fong KW(2), Tan T(2), Soong 
YL(2), Cheah SL(2), Sommat K(2), Low H(3), Ling B(3), Ng J(3), Tan WL(4), Chan
KS(4), Oon L(4), Ying JY(1), Tan MH(5,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Bioengineering and Nanotechnology, 31 Biopolis Way, #04-01, The
Nanos, Singapore 138669, Singapore, Singapore. (2)Division of Radiation Oncology,
National Cancer Centre Singapore, Singapore, Singapore. (3)JN Medsys Pte Ltd,
Singapore, Singapore. (4)Department of Pathology, Singapore General Hospital,
Singapore, Singapore. (5)Institute of Bioengineering and Nanotechnology, 31
Biopolis Way, #04-01, The Nanos, Singapore 138669, Singapore, Singapore.
mhtan@ibn.a-star.edu.sg. (6)Division of Medical Oncology, National Cancer Centre,
Singapore, Singapore. mhtan@ibn.a-star.edu.sg.

Quantification of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) cell-free DNA (cfDNA) is commonly used
in clinical settings as a circulating biomarker in nasopharyngeal carcinoma
(NPC), but there has been no comparison with circulating tumour cells (CTCs). Our
study aims to compare the performance of CTC enumeration against EBV cfDNA
quantitation through digital PCR (dPCR) and quantitative PCR. 74 plasma samples
from 46 NPC patients at baseline and one month after radiotherapy with or without
concurrent chemotherapy were analysed. CTCs were captured by microsieve
technology and enumerated, while three different methods of EBV cfDNA
quantification were applied, including an in-house qPCR assay for BamHI-W
fragment, a CE-IVD qPCR assay (Sentosa (®)) and a dPCR (Clarity™) assay for
Epstein-Barr nuclear antigen 1 (EBNA1). EBV cfDNA quantitation by all workflows
showed stronger correlation with clinical stage, radiological response and
overall survival in comparison with CTC enumeration. The highest detection rate
of EBV cfDNA in pre-treatment samples was seen with the BamHI-W qPCR assay (89%),
followed by EBNA1-dPCR (85%) and EBNA1-qPCR (67%) assays. Overall, we show that
EBV cfDNA outperforms CTC enumeration in correlation with clinical outcomes of
NPC patients undergoing treatment. Techniques such as dPCR and target selection
of BamHI-W may improve sensitivity for EBV cfDNA detection.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-016-0006-3 
PMID: 27994225 


141. Clin Cancer Res. 2017 Jan 1;23(1):116-123. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-0806.
Epub 2016 Dec 19.

Plasma Circulating Tumor DNA in Pancreatic Cancer Patients Is a Prognostic
Marker.

Pietrasz D(1,)(2,)(3), Pécuchet N(2), Garlan F(2), Didelot A(2), Dubreuil O(4),
Doat S(4), Imbert-Bismut F(5), Karoui M(1,)(3), Vaillant JC(1,)(3), Taly V(2),
Laurent-Puig P(2), Bachet JB(6,)(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Digestive and Hepatobiliary Surgery, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital,
Paris, France. (2)Université Paris Sorbonne Cité, INSERM UMR-S1147 MEPPOT, CNRS
SNC5014, Centre Universitaire des Saints-Péres, Paris, France. Equipe labélisée
Ligue contre le Cancer. (3)Sorbonne University, UPMC University, Paris 06,
France. (4)Gastroenterology and Digestive Oncology Department, Pitié-Salpêtrière 
Hospital, Paris, France. (5)Department of Metabolic Biochemistry,
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Paris, France. (6)Université Paris Sorbonne Cité,
INSERM UMR-S1147 MEPPOT, CNRS SNC5014, Centre Universitaire des Saints-Péres,
Paris, France. Equipe labélisée Ligue contre le Cancer.
jean-baptiste.bachet@aphp.fr.

PURPOSE: Despite recent therapeutic advances, prognosis of patients with
pancreatic adenocarcinoma remains poor. Analyses from tumor tissues present
limitations; identification of informative marker from blood might be a promising
alternative. The aim of this study was to assess the feasibility and the
prognostic value of circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) in pancreatic adenocarcinoma.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: From 2011 to 2015, blood samples were prospectively
collected from all consecutive patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated in
our center. Identification of ctDNA was done with next-generation sequencing
targeted on referenced mutations in pancreatic adenocarcinoma and with picoliter 
droplet digital PCR.
RESULTS: A total of 135 patients with resectable (n = 31; 23%), locally advanced 
(n = 36; 27%), or metastatic (n = 68; 50%) pancreatic adenocarcinoma were
included. In patients with advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma (n = 104), 48% (n =
50) had ctDNA detectable with a median mutation allelic frequency (MAF) of 6.1%. 
The presence of ctDNA was strongly correlated with poor overall survival (OS; 6.5
vs. 19.0 months; P < 0.001) in univariate and multivariate analyses (HR = 1.96; P
= 0.007). To evaluate the impact of ctDNA level, patients were grouped according 
to MAF tertiles: OS were 18.9, 7.8, and 4.9 months (P < 0.001). Among patients
who had curative intent resection (n = 31), 6 had ctDNA detectable after surgery,
with an MAF of 4.4%. The presence of ctDNA was associated with a shorter
disease-free survival (4.6 vs.17.6 months; P = 0.03) and shorter OS (19.3 vs.
32.2 months; P = 0.027).
CONCLUSIONS: ctDNA is an independent prognostic marker in advanced pancreatic
adenocarcinoma. Furthermore, it arises as an indicator of shorter disease-free
survival in resected patients when detected after surgery. Clin Cancer Res;
23(1); 116-23. ©2016 AACR.

©2016 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-0806 
PMID: 27993964 


142. Ann Oncol. 2016 Dec 19. pii: mdw670. [Epub ahead of print]

Multiplex KRASG12/G13 Mutation Testing of Unamplified Cell-Free DNA from the
Plasma of Patients with Advanced Cancers Using Droplet Digital Polymerase Chain
Reaction.

Janku F(1), Huang HJ(2), Fujii T(2), Shelton DN(3), Madwani K(2), Fu S(2),
Tsimberidou AM(2), Piha-Paul SA(2), Wheler JJ(2), Zinner RG(2), Naing A(2), Hong 
DS(2), Karp DD(2), Cabrilo G(2), Kopetz ES(4), Subbiah V(2), Luthra R(5), Kee
BK(4), Eng C(4), Morris VK(4), Karlin-Neumann GA(3), Meric-Bernstam F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Investigational Cancer Therapeutics (Phase I Clinical Trials
Program), The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA
fjanku@mdanderson.org. (2)Department of Investigational Cancer Therapeutics
(Phase I Clinical Trials Program), The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center, Houston, TX, USA. (3)Bio-Rad Laboratories, Pleasanton, CA, USA.
(4)Department of Gastrointestinal Medical Oncology, The University of Texas MD
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA. (5)Department of Hematopathology,
Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center, Houston, TX, USA.

BACKGROUND: Cell-free DNA (cfDNA) from plasma offers easily obtainable material
for KRAS mutation analysis. Novel, multiplex, and accurate diagnostic systems
using small amounts of DNA are needed to further the use of plasma cfDNA testing 
in personalized therapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Samples of 16 ng of unamplified plasma cfDNA from 121
patients with diverse progressing advanced cancers were tested with a KRAS
(G12/G13) multiplex assay to detect the 7 most common mutations in the hotspot of
exon 2 using droplet digital polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR). The results were 
retrospectively compared to mutation analysis of archival primary or metastatic
tumor tissue obtained at different points of clinical care.
RESULTS: Eighty-eight patients (73%) had KRAS(G12/G13) mutations in archival
tumor specimens collected on average 18.5 months before plasma analysis, and 78
patients (64%) had KRAS(G12/G13) mutations in plasma cfDNA samples. The two
methods had initial overall agreement in 103 (85%) patients (kappa, 0.66; ddPCR
sensitivity, 84%; ddPCR specificity, 88%). Of the 18 discordant cases, 12 (67%)
were resolved by increasing the amount of cfDNA, using mutation-specific probes, 
or re-testing the tumor tissue, yielding overall agreement in 115 patients (95%; 
kappa 0.87; ddPCR sensitivity, 96%; ddPCR specificity, 94%). The presence of
≥6.2% of KRAS(G12/G13) cfDNA in the wild-type background was associated with
shorter survival (P=0.001).
CONCLUSION: Multiplex detection of KRAS(G12/G13) mutations in a small amount of
unamplified plasma cfDNA using ddPCR has good sensitivity and specificity and
good concordance with conventional clinical mutation testing of archival
specimens. A higher percentage of mutant KRAS(G12/G13) in cfDNA corresponded with
shorter survival.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European
Society for Medical Oncology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdw670 
PMID: 27993791 


143. Breast Cancer Res. 2016 Dec 19;18(1):129.

Circulating cell-free DNA-based epigenetic assay can detect early breast cancer.

Uehiro N(1), Sato F(2), Pu F(3), Tanaka S(1), Kawashima M(1), Kawaguchi K(1),
Sugimoto M(4), Saji S(3,)(5), Toi M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Breast Surgery, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto University,
Kyoto, Japan. (2)Department of Breast Surgery, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto
University, Kyoto, Japan. fsatoh@kuhp.kyoto-u.ac.jp. (3)Department of Target
Therapy Oncology, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan.
(4)Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University, Tsuruoka, Yamagata,
Japan. (5)Department of Medical Oncology, Fukushima Medical University,
Fukushima, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) has recently been recognized as a
resource for biomarkers of cancer progression, treatment response, and drug
resistance. However, few have demonstrated the usefulness of cfDNA for early
detection of cancer. Although aberrant DNA methylation in cfDNA has been reported
for more than a decade, its diagnostic accuracy remains unsatisfactory for cancer
screening. Thus, the aim of the present study was to develop a highly sensitive
cfDNA-based system for detection of primary breast cancer (BC) using epigenetic
biomarkers and digital PCR technology.
METHODS: Array-based genome-wide DNA methylation analysis was performed using 56 
microdissected breast tissue specimens, 34 cell lines, and 29 blood samples from 
healthy volunteers (HVs). Epigenetic markers for BC detection were selected, and 
a droplet digital methylation-specific PCR (ddMSP) panel with the selected
markers was established. The detection model was constructed by support vector
machine and evaluated using cfDNA samples.
RESULTS: The methylation array analysis identified 12 novel epigenetic markers
(JAK3, RASGRF1, CPXM1, SHF, DNM3, CAV2, HOXA10, B3GNT5, ST3GAL6, DACH1, P2RX3,
and chr8:23572595) for detecting BC. We also selected four internal control
markers (CREM, GLYATL3, ELMOD3, and KLF9) that were identified as infrequently
altered genes using a public database. A ddMSP panel using these 16 markers was
developed and detection models were constructed with a training dataset
containing cfDNA samples from 80 HVs and 87 cancer patients. The best detection
model adopted four methylation markers (RASGRF1, CPXM1, HOXA10, and DACH1) and
two parameters (cfDNA concentration and the mean of 12 methylation markers), and,
and was validated in an independent dataset of 53 HVs and 58 BC patients. The
area under the receiver operating characteristic curve for cancer-normal
discrimination was 0.916 and 0.876 in the training and validation dataset,
respectively. The sensitivity and the specificity of the model was 0.862 (stages 
0-I 0.846, IIA 0.862, IIB-III 0.818, metastatic BC 0.935) and 0.827,
respectively.
CONCLUSION: Our epigenetic-marker-based system distinguished BC patients from HVs
with high accuracy. As detection of early BC using this system was comparable
with that of mammography screening, this system would be beneficial as an
optional method of screening for BC.

DOI: 10.1186/s13058-016-0788-z 
PMCID: PMC5168705
PMID: 27993161 


144. Microb Cell Fact. 2016 Dec 19;15(1):211.

Copy number variability of expression plasmids determined by cell sorting and
Droplet Digital PCR.

Jahn M(1,)(2), Vorpahl C(1), Hübschmann T(1), Harms H(1), Müller S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Helmholtz-Centre for Environmental Research-UFZ, Permoserstraße 15, 04318,
Leipzig, Germany. (2)School of Biotechnology, Science for Life Laboratory,
KTH-Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden. (3)Helmholtz-Centre for
Environmental Research-UFZ, Permoserstraße 15, 04318, Leipzig, Germany.
susann.mueller@ufz.de.

BACKGROUND: Plasmids are widely used for molecular cloning or production of
proteins in laboratory and industrial settings. Constant modification has brought
forth countless plasmid vectors whose characteristics in terms of average plasmid
copy number (PCN) and stability are rarely known. The crucial factor determining 
the PCN is the replication system; most replication systems in use today belong
to a small number of different classes and are available through repositories
like the Standard European Vector Architecture (SEVA).
RESULTS: In this study, the PCN was determined in a set of seven SEVA-based
expression plasmids only differing in the replication system. The average PCN for
all constructs was determined by Droplet Digital PCR and ranged between 2 and 40 
per chromosome in the host organism Escherichia coli. Furthermore, a
plasmid-encoded EGFP reporter protein served as a means to assess variability in 
reporter gene expression on the single cell level. Only cells with one type of
plasmid (RSF1010 replication system) showed a high degree of heterogeneity with a
clear bimodal distribution of EGFP intensity while the others showed a normal
distribution. The heterogeneous RSF1010-carrying cell population and one normally
distributed population (ColE1 replication system) were further analyzed by
sorting cells of sub-populations selected according to EGFP intensity. For both
plasmids, low and highly fluorescent sub-populations showed a remarkable
difference in PCN, ranging from 9.2 to 123.4 for ColE1 and from 0.5 to 11.8 for
RSF1010, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The average PCN determined here for a set of standardized plasmids
was generally at the lower end of previously reported ranges and not related to
the degree of heterogeneity. Further characterization of a heterogeneous and a
homogeneous population demonstrated considerable differences in the PCN of
sub-populations. We therefore present direct molecular evidence that the average 
PCN does not represent the true number of plasmid molecules in individual cells.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-016-0610-8 
PMCID: PMC5168713
PMID: 27993152  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. PLoS One. 2016 Dec 19;11(12):e0168179. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0168179.
eCollection 2016.

A Systematic Investigation of Parameters Influencing Droplet Rain in the Listeria
monocytogenes prfA Assay - Reduction of Ambiguous Results in ddPCR.

Witte AK(1), Mester P(1), Fister S(1), Witte M(2), Schoder D(1,)(3), Rossmanith
P(1,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Christian Doppler Laboratory for Monitoring of Microbial Contaminants,
Institute of Milk Hygiene, Department for Farm Animals and Veterinary Public
Health, University of Veterinary Medicine, Vienna, Austria. (2)Department of
Psychology, University of Graz, Graz, Austria. (3)Institute of Milk Hygiene,
Department for Farm Animals and Veterinary Public Health, University of
Veterinary Medicine, Vienna, Austria.

The droplet digital polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR) determines DNA amounts
based upon the pattern of positive and negative droplets, according to Poisson
distribution, without the use of external standards. However, division into
positive and negative droplets is often not clear because a part of the droplets 
has intermediate fluorescence values, appearing as "rain" in the plot. Despite
the droplet rain, absolute quantification with ddPCR is possible, as shown
previously for the prfA assay in quantifying Listeria monocytogenes.
Nevertheless, reducing the rain, and thus ambiguous results, promotes the
accuracy and credibility of ddPCR. In this study, we extensively investigated
chemical and physical parameters for optimizing the prfA assay for ddPCR. While
differences in the concentration of all chemicals and the dye, quencher and
supplier of the probe did not alter the droplet pattern, changes in the PCR
cycling program, such as prolonged times and increased cycle numbers, improved
the assay.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0168179 
PMCID: PMC5167268
PMID: 27992475 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


146. Biomol Detect Quantif. 2016 May 3;10:47-49. eCollection 2016.

Digital polymerase chain reaction for characterisation of DNA reference
materials.

Bhat S(1), Emslie KR(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Measurement Institute, Lindfield, NSW 2070, Australia.

Accurate, reliable and reproducible quantification of nucleic acids (DNA/RNA) is 
important for many diagnostic applications and in routine laboratory testing, for
example, for pathogen detection and detection of genetically modified organisms
in food. To ensure reliable nucleic acid measurement, reference materials (RM)
that are accurately characterised for quantity of target nucleic acid sequences
(in copy number or copy number concentration) with a known measurement
uncertainty are needed. Recently developed digital polymerase chain reaction
(dPCR) technology allows absolute and accurate quantification of nucleic acid
target sequences without need for a reference standard. Due to these properties, 
this technique has the potential to not only improve routine quantitative nucleic
acid analysis, but also to be used as a reference method for certification of
nucleic acid RM. The article focuses on the use and application of both dPCR and 
RMs for accurate quantification.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bdq.2016.04.001 
PMCID: PMC5154631
PMID: 27990349 


147. Biomol Detect Quantif. 2016 Nov 3;10:34-46. eCollection 2016.

Three-color crystal digital PCR.

Madic J(1), Zocevic A(1), Senlis V(2), Fradet E(1), Andre B(1), Muller S(1),
Dangla R(1), Droniou ME(1).

Author information: 
(1)Stilla Technologies, 1 Mail du Professeur Georges Mathé, 94800 Villejuif,
France. (2)Ecole Polytechnique, Route de Saclay, 91128 Palaiseau, France.

Digital PCR is an exciting new field for molecular analysis, allowing
unprecedented precision in the quantification of nucleic acids, as well as the
fine discrimination of rare molecular events in complex samples. We here present 
a novel technology for digital PCR, Crystal Digital PCR™, which relies on the use
of a single chip to partition samples into 2D droplet arrays, which are then
subjected to thermal cycling and finally read using a three-color fluorescence
scanning device. This novel technology thus allows three-color multiplexing,
which entails a different approach to data analysis. In the present publication, 
we present this innovative workflow, which is both fast and user-friendly, and
discuss associated data analysis issue, such as fluorescence spillover
compensation and data representation. Lastly, we also present proof-of-concept of
this three-color detection system, using a quadriplex assay for the detection of 
EGFR mutations L858R, L861Q and T790M.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bdq.2016.10.002 
PMCID: PMC5154636
PMID: 27990348 


148. Biomol Detect Quantif. 2016 Nov 2;10:31-33. eCollection 2016.

Digital PCR dynamic range is approaching that of real-time quantitative PCR.

Jones GM(1), Busby E(1), Garson JA(2), Grant PR(3), Nastouli E(3), Devonshire
AS(1), Whale AS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Cell Biology Team, LGC, Teddington, United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Infection, Division of Infection and Immunity, University
College London, London, UK. (3)Virology Laboratory, Clinical Microbiology and
Virology, University College London Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, London, United
Kingdom.

Digital PCR (dPCR) has been reported to be more precise and sensitive than
real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR) in a variety of models and applications.
However, in the majority of commercially available dPCR platforms, the dynamic
range is dependent on the number of partitions analysed and so is typically
limited to four orders of magnitude; reduced compared with the typical seven
orders achievable by qPCR. Using two different biological models (HIV DNA
analysis and KRAS genotyping), we have demonstrated that the RainDrop Digital PCR
System (RainDance Technologies) is capable of performing accurate and precise
quantification over six orders of magnitude thereby approaching that achievable
by qPCR.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bdq.2016.10.001 
PMCID: PMC5154633
PMID: 27990347 


149. Biomol Detect Quantif. 2016 May 17;10:24-30. eCollection 2016.

Designing and interpretation of digital assays: Concentration of target in the
sample and in the source of sample.

Debski PR(1), Garstecki P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physical Chemistry, Polish Academy of Sciences, Kasprzaka 44/52, 
Warsaw 01-224, Poland; Curiosity Diagnostics Sp. z o.o. Kasprzaka 44/52, Warsaw
01-224, Poland.

We explain how to design classic digital assays, comprising identical partitions,
in order to obtain the required precision of the estimate within a defined range 
of concentrations. The design, including the number and volume of partitions,
depends significantly on whether the assay is to assess the concentration of the 
target analyte in the sample or in the source of the sample (e.g. a patient body)
with a given precision. We also show how to translate the result referring to the
concentration in the sample into the concentration in the source of the sample,
including the significant change in the breath of the confidence intervals.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bdq.2016.04.002 
PMCID: PMC5154637
PMID: 27990346 


150. Biomol Detect Quantif. 2016 May 27;10:15-23. eCollection 2016.

Fundamentals of multiplexing with digital PCR.

Whale AS(1), Huggett JF(1), Tzonev S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Cell Biology Team, LGC, Queens Road, Teddington, Middlesex TW11 
0LY, United Kingdom. (2)Digital Biology Centre, Bio-Rad Laboratories Inc., 5731
West Las Positas Boulevard, Pleasanton, CA 94588, United States.

Over the past decade numerous publications have demonstrated how digital PCR
(dPCR) enables precise and sensitive quantification of nucleic acids in a wide
range of applications in both healthcare and environmental analysis. This has
occurred in parallel with the advances in partitioning fluidics that enable a
reaction to be subdivided into an increasing number of partitions. As the
majority of dPCR systems are based on detection in two discrete optical channels,
most research to date has focused on quantification of one or two targets within 
a single reaction. Here we describe 'higher order multiplexing' that is the
unique ability of dPCR to precisely measure more than two targets in the same
reaction. Using examples, we describe the different types of duplex and multiplex
reactions that can be achieved. We also describe essential experimental
considerations to ensure accurate quantification of multiple targets.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bdq.2016.05.002 
PMCID: PMC5154634
PMID: 27990345 


151. Biomol Detect Quantif. 2016 Aug 8;10:9-14. eCollection 2016.

Applicability of digital PCR to the investigation of pediatric-onset genetic
disorders.

Butchbach ME(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Applied Clinical Genomics, Nemours Biomedical Research, Nemours
Alfred I. duPont Hospital for Children, Wilmington, DE, USA; Center for Pediatric
Research, Nemours Biomedical Research, Nemours Alfred I. duPont Hospital for
Children, Wilmington, DE, USA; Department of Biological Sciences, University of
Delaware, Newark, DE, USA; Department of Pediatrics, Thomas Jefferson University,
Philadelphia, PA, USA.

Early-onset rare diseases have a strong impact on child healthcare even though
the incidence of each of these diseases is relatively low. In order to better
manage the care of these children, it is imperative to quickly diagnose the
molecular bases for these disorders as well as to develop technologies with
prognostic potential. Digital PCR (dPCR) is well suited for this role by
providing an absolute quantification of the target DNA within a sample. This
review illustrates how dPCR can be used to identify genes associated with
pediatric-onset disorders, to identify copy number status of important
disease-causing genes and variants and to quantify modifier genes. It is also a
powerful technology to track changes in genomic biomarkers with disease
progression. Based on its capability to accurately and reliably detect genomic
alterations with high sensitivity and a large dynamic detection range, dPCR has
the potential to become the tool of choice for the verification of pediatric
disease-associated mutations identified by next generation sequencing, copy
number determination and noninvasive prenatal screening.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bdq.2016.06.002 
PMCID: PMC5154671
PMID: 27990344 


152. Biomol Detect Quantif. 2016 Aug 31;10:2-8. eCollection 2016.

Homogeneous and digital proximity ligation assays for the detection of
Clostridium difficile toxins A and B.

Dhillon HS(1), Johnson G(1), Shannon M(2), Greenwood C(1), Roberts D(3), Bustin
S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Postgraduate Medical Institute, Faculty of Medical Science, Anglia Ruskin
University, Chelmsford, Essex, UK. (2)Thermo Fisher Scientific, South San
Francisco, CA, USA. (3)Exosome Diagnostics, Cambridge, MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: The proximity ligation assay (PLA) detects proteins via their
interaction with pairs of proximity probes, which are antibodies coupled to
noncomplementary DNA oligonucleotides. The binding of both proximity probes to
their epitopes on the target protein brings the oligonucleotides together,
allowing them to be bridged by a third oligonucleotide with complementarity to
the other two. This enables their ligation and the detection of the resulting
amplicon by real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR), which acts as a surrogate marker
for the protein of interest. Hence PLA has potential as a clinically relevant
diagnostic tool for the detection of pathogens where nucleic acid based tests are
inconclusive proof of infection.
METHODS: We prepared monoclonal and polyclonal proximity probes targeting
Clostridium difficile toxins A (TcdA) and B (TcdB) and used hydrolysis
probe-based qPCR and digital PCR (dPCR) assays to detect antibody/antigen
interactions.
RESULTS: The performance of the PLA assays was antibody-dependent but both TcdA
and TcdB assays were more sensitive than comparable ELISAs in either single- or
dualplex formats. Both PLAs could be performed using single monoclonal antibodies
coupled to different oligonucleotides. Finally, we used dPCR to demonstrate its
potential for accurate and reliable quantification of TcdA.
CONCLUSIONS: PLA with either qPCR or dPCR readout have potential as new
diagnostic applications for the detection of pathogens where nucleic acid based
tests do not indicate viability or expression of toxins. Importantly, since it is
not always necessary to use two different antibodies, the pool of potential
antibodies useful for PLA diagnostic assays is usefully enhanced.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bdq.2016.06.003 
PMCID: PMC5154635
PMID: 27990343 


153. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2017 Mar;409(7):1869-1875. doi: 10.1007/s00216-016-0131-7.
Epub 2016 Dec 17.

Clarity™ digital PCR system: a novel platform for absolute quantification of
nucleic acids.

Low H(1), Chan SJ(2), Soo GH(1), Ling B(1), Tan EL(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)JN Medsys, 217 Henderson Road #02-08, Singapore, 159555, Singapore. (2)Centre 
for Biomedical and Life Sciences, Singapore Polytechnic, 500 Dover Road,
Singapore, 139651, Singapore. (3)Centre for Biomedical and Life Sciences,
Singapore Polytechnic, 500 Dover Road, Singapore, 139651, Singapore.
englee@sp.edu.sg. (4)Department of Paediatrics, University Children's Medical
Institute, National University Hospital, 1E Kent Ridge Road, Singapore, 119228,
Singapore. englee@sp.edu.sg.

In recent years, digital polymerase chain reaction (dPCR) has gained recognition 
in biomedical research as it provides a platform for precise and accurate
quantification of nucleic acids without the need for a standard curve. However,
this technology has not yet been widely adopted as compared to real-time
quantitative PCR due to its more cumbersome workflow arising from the need to
sub-divide a PCR sample into a large number of smaller partitions prior to
thermal cycling to achieve zero or at least one copy of the target RNA/DNA per
partition. A recently launched platform, the Clarity™ system from JN Medsys,
simplifies dPCR workflow through the use of a novel chip-in-a-tube technology for
sample partitioning. In this study, the performance of Clarity™ was evaluated
through quantification of the single-copy human RNase P gene. The system
demonstrated high precision and accuracy and also excellent linearity across a
range of over 4 orders of magnitude for the absolute quantification of the target
gene. Moreover, consistent DNA copy measurements were also attained using a panel
of different probe- and dye-based master mixes, demonstrating the system's
compatibility with commercial master mixes. The Clarity™ was then compared to the
QX100™ droplet dPCR system from Bio-Rad using a set of DNA reference materials,
and the copy number concentrations derived from both systems were found to be
closely associated. Collectively, the results showed that Clarity™ is a reliable,
robust and flexible platform for next-generation genetic analysis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-016-0131-7 
PMID: 27988800 


154. Brain Pathol. 2016 Dec 16. doi: 10.1111/bpa.12473. [Epub ahead of print]

Co-occurrence of histone H3 K27M and BRAF V600E mutations in paediatric midline
grade I ganglioglioma.

Pagès M(1,)(2,)(3), Beccaria K(4), Boddaert N(5), Saffroy R(6), Besnard A(1),
Castel D(7,)(8), Fina F(9), Barets D(10), Barret E(7,)(8), Lacroix L(11), Bielle 
F(12), Andreiuolo F(1), Tauziède-Espariat A(1), Figarella-Branger D(10,)(13),
Puget S(4), Grill J(7,)(8), Chrétien F(1,)(2,)(14), Varlet P(1,)(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuropathology, Sainte-Anne Hospital, Paris, France. (2)Paris V 
Descartes University, Paris, France. (3)Institut National de la Santé et de la
Recherche Médicale, INSERM Unit 1000 "Neuroimaging & Psychiatry,", Université
Paris Sud, Orsay. (4)Department of Paediatric Neurosurgery, Necker Enfants
Malades Hospital, Paris, France. (5)Department of Paediatric Neuroradiology,
Necker Enfants Malades Hospital, Paris, France. (6)Department of Biochemistry,
Paul Brousse Hospital, Paris, France. (7)UMR8203 "Vectorologie et Thérapeutiques 
Anticancéreuses," CNRS, Gustave Roussy, Univ. Paris-Sud, Université Paris-Saclay,
Villejuif, 94805, France. (8)Département de Cancérologie de l'Enfant et de
l'Adolescent, Gustave Roussy, Univ. Paris-Sud, Université Paris-Saclay,
Villejuif, 94805, France. (9)Service de transfert d'Oncologie Biologique, LBM
APHM Marseille, France. (10)APHM, Hôpital de la Timone, Service d'Anatomie
Pathologique et de Neuropathologie, Marseille, France. (11)Departement de
Biologie et Pathologie Médicales, Gustave Roussy, Univ. Paris-Sud, Université
Paris-Saclay, Villejuif, 94805, France. (12)Department of Neuropathology,
Laboratoire Escourolle, Hôpitaux Universitaires Pitié Salpêtrière Charles Foix,
AP-HP, Paris, France. (13)Aix-Marseille Université, Inserm, CRO2 UMR_S 911,
Marseille, France. (14)Infection & Epidemiology Department, Human Histopathology 
and Animal Models Unit, Institut Pasteur, Paris, France.

Ganglioglioma (GG) is a grade I tumor characterized by alterations in the MAPK
pathway, including BRAF V600E mutation. Recently, diffuse midline glioma with an 
H3 K27M mutation was added to the WHO 2016 classification as a new grade IV
entity. As co-occurrence of H3 K27M and BRAF V600E mutations has been reported in
midline tumors and anaplastic GG, we searched for BRAF V600E and H3 K27M
mutations in a series of 54 paediatric midline grade I GG (midline GG) to
determine the frequency of double mutations and its relevance for prognosis.
Twenty-seven patients (50%) possessed the BRAF V600E mutation. The frequency of
the co-occurrence of H3F3A/BRAF mutations at diagnosis was 9.3%. No H3 K27M
mutation was detected in the absence of the BRAF V600E mutation.
Double-immunostaining revealed that BRAF V600E and H3 K27M mutant proteins were
present in both the glial and neuronal components. Immunopositivity for the BRAF 
V600E mutant protein correlated with BRAF mutation status as detected by
massARRAY or digital droplet PCR. The median follow-up of patients with double
mutation was 4 years. One patient died of progressive disease 8 years after
diagnosis, whereas the four other patients were all alive with stable disease at 
the last clinical follow-up (at 9 months, 1 year and 7 years) without adjuvant
therapy. We demonstrate in this first series of midline GGs that the H3 K27M
mutation can occur in association with the BRAF V600E mutation in grade I
glioneuronal tumors. Despite the presence of H3 K27M mutations, these cases
should not be graded and treated as grade IV tumors because they have a better
spontaneous outcome than classic diffuse midline H3 K27M-mutant glioma. These
data suggest that H3 K27M cannot be considered a specific hallmark of grade IV
diffuse gliomas and highlight the importance of integrated histomolecular
diagnosis in paediatric brain tumors.

© 2017 International Society of Neuropathology.

DOI: 10.1111/bpa.12473 
PMID: 27984673 


155. Sci Rep. 2016 Dec 16;6:39183. doi: 10.1038/srep39183.

Sensitive and accurate quantification of human malaria parasites using droplet
digital PCR (ddPCR).

Koepfli C(1,)(2), Nguitragool W(3), Hofmann NE(4,)(5), Robinson LJ(1,)(6),
Ome-Kaius M(6), Sattabongkot J(3), Felger I(4,)(5), Mueller I(1,)(2,)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Walter &Eliza Hall Institute, Parkville, Australia. (2)Department of Medical
Biology, University of Melbourne, Parkville, Australia. (3)Faculty of Tropical
Medicine, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand. (4)Swiss Tropical and Public
Health Institute, Basel, Switzerland. (5)University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
(6)Papua New Guinea Institute of Medical Research, Madang, Papua New Guinea.
(7)Institut Pasteur, Paris, France.

Accurate quantification of parasite density in the human host is essential for
understanding the biology and pathology of malaria. Semi-quantitative molecular
methods are widely applied, but the need for an external standard curve makes it 
difficult to compare parasite density estimates across studies. Droplet digital
PCR (ddPCR) allows direct quantification without the need for a standard curve.
ddPCR was used to diagnose and quantify P. falciparum and P. vivax in clinical
patients as well as in asymptomatic samples. ddPCR yielded highly reproducible
measurements across the range of parasite densities observed in humans, and
showed higher sensitivity than qPCR to diagnose P. falciparum, and equal
sensitivity for P. vivax. Correspondence in quantification was very high (>0.95) 
between qPCR and ddPCR. Quantification between technical replicates by ddPCR
differed 1.5-1.7-fold, compared to 2.4-6.2-fold by qPCR. ddPCR facilitates
parasite quantification for studies where absolute densities are required, and
will increase comparability of results reported from different laboratories.

DOI: 10.1038/srep39183 
PMCID: PMC5159915
PMID: 27982132 


156. Clin Chem. 2017 Feb;63(2):525-531. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2016.262824. Epub 2016
Dec 15.

RT-qPCR and RT-Digital PCR: A Comparison of Different Platforms for the
Evaluation of Residual Disease in Chronic Myeloid Leukemia.

Alikian M(1,)(2), Whale AS(3), Akiki S(4), Piechocki K(4), Torrado C(5), Myint
T(5), Cowen S(6), Griffiths M(4), Reid AG(5,)(2), Apperley J(2,)(7), White H(8), 
Huggett JF(3,)(9), Foroni L(2,)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Imperial Molecular Pathology, Imperial Healthcare Trust, Hammersmith Hospital,
London, UK; m.alikian@imperial.ac.uk. (2)Centre for Haematology, Faculty of
Medicine, Imperial College London, London, UK. (3)Molecular and Cell Biology
Team, LGC, Queens Road, Teddington, UK. (4)West Midlands Regional Genetics
Laboratories, Birmingham Women's NHS Foundation Trust, Birmingham, UK.
(5)Imperial Molecular Pathology, Imperial Healthcare Trust, Hammersmith Hospital,
London, UK. (6)Statistics Team, LGC, Queens Road, Teddington, UK. (7)Clinical
Haematology, Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, London, UK. (8)National
Genetics Reference Laboratory (Wessex), Salisbury District Hospital, Salisbury,
UK. (9)School of Biosciences & Medicine, Faculty of Health & Medical Science,
University of Surrey, Guildford, UK.

BACKGROUND: Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are the cornerstone of successful
clinical management of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). Quantitative
monitoring of the percentage of the fusion transcript BCR-ABL1 (breakpoint
cluster region-c-abl oncogene 1, non-receptor tyrosine kinase) BCR-ABL1(IS)
(%BCR-ABL1(IS)) by reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) is the gold
standard strategy for evaluating patient response to TKIs and classification into
prognostic subgroups. However, this approach can be challenging to perform in a
reproducible manner. Reverse-transcription digital PCR (RT-dPCR) is an adaptation
of this method that could provide the robust and standardized workflow needed for
truly standardized patient stratification.
METHODS: BCR-ABL1 and ABL1 transcript copy numbers were quantified in a total of 
102 samples; 70 CML patients undergoing TKI therapy and 32 non-CML individuals. 3
commercially available digital PCR platforms (QS3D, QX200 and Raindrop) were
compared with the platform routinely used in the clinic for RT-qPCR using the EAC
(Europe Against Cancer) assay.
RESULTS: Measurements on all instruments correlated well when the %BCR-ABL1(IS)
was ≥0.1%. In patients with residual disease below this level, greater variations
were measured both within and between instruments limiting comparable performance
to a 4 log dynamic range.
CONCLUSIONS: RT-dPCR was able to quantify low-level BCR-ABL1 transcript copies
but was unable to improve sensitivity below the level of detection achieved by
RT-qPCR. However, RT-dPCR was able to perform these sensitive measurements
without use of a calibration curve. Adaptions to the protocol to increase the
amount of RNA measured are likely to be necessary to improve the analytical
sensitivity of BCR-ABL testing on a dPCR platform.

© 2016 American Association for Clinical Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2016.262824 
PMID: 27979961 


157. Neuromuscul Disord. 2017 Jan;27(1):15-23. doi: 10.1016/j.nmd.2016.11.003. Epub
2016 Nov 11.

Digital PCR quantification of miR-30c and miR-181a as serum biomarkers for
Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

Llano-Diez M(1), Ortez CI(1), Gay JA(2), Álvarez-Cabado L(1), Jou C(3), Medina
J(2), Nascimento A(4), Jimenez-Mallebrera C(5).

Author information: 
(1)Neuromuscular Unit, Neuropaediatrics Department, Institut de Recerca
Pediàtrica Hospital Sant Joan de Déu, Barcelona, Spain. (2)Rehabilitation and
Physical Unit Department, Hospital Sant Joan de Deu, Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Pathology Department, Hospital Sant Joan de Deu, Barcelona, Spain; Center for 
the Biomedical Research on Rare Diseases (CIBERER), ISCIII, Spain.
(4)Neuromuscular Unit, Neuropaediatrics Department, Institut de Recerca
Pediàtrica Hospital Sant Joan de Déu, Barcelona, Spain; Center for the Biomedical
Research on Rare Diseases (CIBERER), ISCIII, Spain. (5)Neuromuscular Unit,
Neuropaediatrics Department, Institut de Recerca Pediàtrica Hospital Sant Joan de
Déu, Barcelona, Spain; Center for the Biomedical Research on Rare Diseases
(CIBERER), ISCIII, Spain. Electronic address: cjimenezm@fsjd.org.

Circulating microRNAs (miRs/miRNAs) are being used as non-invasive biomarkers for
diagnosis, prognosis and efficiency of clinical trials. However, to exploit their
potential it is necessary to improve and standardize their detection. In a
previous study, we identified two microRNAs, miR-30c and miR-181a, that appear to
be key regulators of muscular dystrophy. We hypothesized that they could
represent useful biomarkers of Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophies (DMD and 
BMD). The objective of this study was to assess the absolute levels of miR-30c
and miR-181a in sera of DMD and BMD patients using digital PCR (a robust
technique for precise and direct quantification of small amounts of nucleic acids
without standard curves and external references), and investigate the correlation
between miR-30c and miR-181a expressions and several clinical parameters. Our
results show that the serum levels of miR-30c and miR-181a increased 7- and
6-fold respectively in DMD patients (n = 21, 2-14 years, ambulant), and 7-fold in
BMD patients (n = 5, 9-15 years) compared to controls (n = 22, 2-14 years). No
association between miRNA levels and age or corticosteroid treatment was detected
in DMD. However, there was a trend towards higher levels of miR-30c in DMD
patients with better preserved motor function according to various motor scales
and timed tests. We demonstrate that digital PCR is a useful technique for
accurate absolute quantification of microRNAs in sera of DMD/BMD patients. We
propose miR-30c and miR-181a as reliable serum diagnostic biomarkers for DMD and 
BMD and miR-30c as a potential novel biomarker to assess disease severity in DMD.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nmd.2016.11.003 
PMID: 27979502 


158. Food Chem. 2017 Apr 15;221:1770-1777. doi: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2016.10.106. Epub
2016 Oct 24.

Ultra-sensitive and absolute quantitative detection of Cu(2+) based on DNAzyme
and digital PCR in water and drink samples.

Zhu P(1), Shang Y(2), Tian W(3), Huang K(4), Luo Y(5), Xu W(6).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Food Safety, College of Food Science and Nutritional
Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100083, China; The Institute 
of Plant Quarantine, Chinese Academy of Inspection and Quarantine, Beijing,
100176, China. (2)Laboratory of Food Safety, College of Food Science and
Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100083, China;
Yunnan Institute of Food Safety, Kunming University of Science and Technology,
Kunming, Yunnan 650500, China. (3)Laboratory of Food Safety, College of Food
Science and Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing
100083, China. (4)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Food Nutrition and Human
Health, College of Food Science & Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural
University, China; Laboratory of Food Safety, College of Food Science and
Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100083, China.
(5)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Food Nutrition and Human Health,
College of Food Science & Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural University,
China. (6)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Food Nutrition and Human Health,
College of Food Science & Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural University,
China; Laboratory of Food Safety, College of Food Science and Nutritional
Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100083, China. Electronic
address: xuwentao@cau.edu.cn.

Here, we developed an ultra-sensitive and absolute quantitative detection method 
of Cu(2+) based on DNAzyme and digital PCR. The binding model between DNAzyme and
Cu(2+) and the influence caused by the additional primer sequence were revealed
to ensure quantitation independent of standard curves. The binding model of
DNAzyme and Cu(2+) showed that one molecular DNAzyme could bind one Cu(2+) in the
biosensor step. Thus, the final quantitative results, evaluated by three
parallels, showed that the limit of quantitation (LOQ) was as low as 0.5pmol,
while the sensitivity was evaluated as 50fmol. The specificity evaluation of our 
methodologies shows that extremely low crossing signal is existed within the
non-specific ions. Moreover, the results of practical detection have shown that
the quantitative results were stable and accurate among different food
substrates. In conclusion, a flexible quantitative detection method with
ultra-sensitivity was developed to detect trace amounts Cu(2+) within different
substrates.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2016.10.106 
PMID: 27979159  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Pathobiology. 2016 Dec 15. [Epub ahead of print]

Liquid Biopsy: A Future Tool for Posttreatment Surveillance in Head and Neck
Cancer?

van Ginkel JH(1), Huibers MM, Noorlag R, de Bree R, van Es RJ, Willems SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Utrecht Cancer Center,
University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

The prognosis of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is largely based
on disease stage. Despite improvements in treatment, recurrence rates are still
considered high. Currently, disease progression or regression after curative
treatment is monitored by clinical evaluation combined with flexible endoscopy
and/or imaging. However, specificity of imaging is low due to the posttreatment
effects. Detection of circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) from blood samples of HNSCC
patients is a minimally invasive technique that could lead to an earlier
detection of recurrence. In addition, digital droplet PCR (ddPCR) could be used
to sensitively detect these mutational targets. Future study on ctDNA using ddPCR
in blood samples of HNSCC patients is recommended during the follow-up stage to
detect recurrences in a timely manner.

© 2016 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000452861 
PMID: 27974721 


160. J Clin Microbiol. 2017 Mar;55(3):824-831. doi: 10.1128/JCM.02337-16. Epub 2016
Dec 14.

Copy Number Heterogeneity of JC Virus Standards.

Greninger AL(1), Bateman AC(2), Atienza EE(2), Wendt S(2), Makhsous N(2), Jerome 
KR(2,)(3), Cook L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington, USA agrening@uw.edu. (2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University
of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA. (3)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research
Institute, Seattle, Washington, USA.

Quantitative PCR is a diagnostic mainstay of clinical virology, and accurate
quantitation of viral load among labs requires the use of international
standards. However, the use of multiple passages of viral isolates to obtain
sufficient material for international standards may result in genomic changes
that complicate their use as quantitative standards. We performed next-generation
sequencing to obtain single-nucleotide resolution and relative copy number of JC 
virus (JCV) clinical standards. Strikingly, the WHO international standard and
the Exact v1/v2 prototype standards for JCV showed 8-fold and 4-fold variation in
genomic coverage between different loci in the viral genome, respectively, due to
large deletions in the large T antigen region. Intriguingly, several of the JCV
standards sequenced in this study with large T antigen deletions were cultured in
cell lines immortalized using simian virus 40 (SV40) T antigen, suggesting the
possibility of transcomplementation in cell culture. Using a cutoff 5% allele
fraction for junctional reads, 7 different rearrangements were present in the JC 
virus sequences present in the WHO standard across multiple library preparations 
and sequencing runs. Neither the copy number differences nor the rearrangements
were observed in a clinical sample with a high copy number of JCV or a plasmid
control. These results were also confirmed by the quantitative real-time PCR
(qPCR), droplet digital PCR (ddPCR), and Sanger sequencing of multiple
rearrangements. In summary, targeting different regions of the same international
standard can result in up to an 8-fold difference in quantitation. We recommend
the use of next-generation sequencing to validate standards in clinical virology.

Copyright © 2017 Greninger et al.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.02337-16 
PMCID: PMC5328450
PMID: 27974546 


161. Dis Markers. 2016;2016:6064830. Epub 2016 Nov 14.

Reassessing the Role of the Active TGF-β1 as a Biomarker in Systemic Sclerosis:
Association of Serum Levels with Clinical Manifestations.

Dantas AT(1), Gonçalves SM(2), de Almeida AR(2), Gonçalves RS(1), Sampaio MC(2), 
Vilar KM(2), Pereira MC(2), Rêgo MJ(2), Pitta ID(3), Marques CD(4), Duarte AL(4),
Pitta MG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Hospital das Clínicas, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco (UFPE), Recife, PE, 
Brazil; Laboratório de Imunomodulação e Novas Abordagens Terapêuticas, Núcleo de 
Pesquisa em Inovação Terapêutica Suely Galdino, Recife, PE, Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Imunomodulação e Novas Abordagens Terapêuticas, Núcleo de
Pesquisa em Inovação Terapêutica Suely Galdino, Recife, PE, Brazil.
(3)Laboratório de Planejamento e Síntese de Fármacos, UFPE, Recife, PE, Brazil.
(4)Hospital das Clínicas, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco (UFPE), Recife, PE, 
Brazil.

Objective. To determine active TGF-β1 (aTGF-β1) levels in serum, skin, and
peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) culture supernatants and to understand
their associations with clinical parameters in systemic sclerosis (SSc) patients.
Methods. We evaluated serum samples from 56 SSc patients and 24 healthy controls 
(HC). In 20 SSc patients, we quantified spontaneous or anti-CD3/CD28 stimulated
production of aTGF-β1 by PBMC. The aTGF-β1 levels were measured by ELISA. Skin
biopsies were obtained from 13 SSc patients and six HC, and TGFB1 expression was 
analyzed by RT-PCR. Results. TGF-β1 serum levels were significantly higher in SSc
patients than in HC (p < 0.0001). Patients with increased TGF-β1 serum levels
were more likely to have diffuse subset (p = 0.02), digital ulcers (p = 0.02),
lung fibrosis (p < 0.0001), positive antitopoisomerase I (p = 0.03), and higher
modified Rodnan score (p = 0.046). Most of our culture supernatant samples had
undetectable levels of TGF-β1. No significant difference in TGFB1 expression was 
observed in the SSc skin compared with HC skin. Conclusion. Raised active TGF-β1 
serum levels and their association with clinical manifestations in scleroderma
patients suggest that this cytokine could be a marker of fibrotic and vascular
involvement in SSc.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/6064830 
PMCID: PMC5124685
PMID: 27965520  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no declarations of interest.


162. J Microbiol Methods. 2017 Feb;133:1-7. doi: 10.1016/j.mimet.2016.12.002. Epub
2016 Dec 10.

A novel CMOS image sensor system for quantitative loop-mediated isothermal
amplification assays to detect food-borne pathogens.

Wang T(1), Kim S(2), An JH(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bionanotechnology, Gachon University, San 65, Bokjeong-Dong,
Sujeong-Gu, Seongnam-Si, Gyeonggi-Do 461-701, Republic of Korea. (2)Department of
Bionanotechnology, Gachon University, San 65, Bokjeong-Dong, Sujeong-Gu,
Seongnam-Si, Gyeonggi-Do 461-701, Republic of Korea; Graduate Gachon Medical
Research Institute, Gil Medical Center, Inchon, 405-760, Republic of Korea.
Electronic address: samkim@gachon.ac.kr. (3)Department of Polymer Science &
Engineering, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon, Gyeonggi-Do 440-146, Republic of
Korea. Electronic address: jhahn1us@skku.edu.

Loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) is considered as one of the
alternatives to the conventional PCR and it is an inexpensive portable diagnostic
system with minimal power consumption. The present work describes the application
of LAMP in real-time photon detection and quantitative analysis of nucleic acids 
integrated with a disposable complementary-metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) image
sensor. This novel system works as an amplification-coupled detection platform,
relying on a CMOS image sensor, with the aid of a computerized circuitry
controller for the temperature and light sources. The CMOS image sensor captures 
the light which is passing through the sensor surface and converts into digital
units using an analog-to-digital converter (ADC). This new system monitors the
real-time photon variation, caused by the color changes during amplification.
Escherichia coli O157 was used as a proof-of-concept target for quantitative
analysis, and compared with the results for Staphylococcus aureus and Salmonella 
enterica to confirm the efficiency of the system. The system detected various DNA
concentrations of E. coli O157 in a short time (45min), with a detection limit of
10fg/μL. The low-cost, simple, and compact design, with low power consumption,
represents a significant advance in the development of a portable, sensitive,
user-friendly, real-time, and quantitative analytic tools for point-of-care
diagnosis.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mimet.2016.12.002 
PMID: 27965010 


163. Int J Food Microbiol. 2017 Feb 21;243:36-45. doi:
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2016.11.022. Epub 2016 Nov 23.

Digital RT-PCR method for hepatitis A virus and norovirus quantification in soft 
berries.

Fraisse A(1), Coudray-Meunier C(1), Martin-Latil S(1), Hennechart-Collette C(1), 
Delannoy S(1), Fach P(1), Perelle S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Université Paris Est, ANSES, Maisons-Alfort Laboratory for Food Safety,
F-94701 Maisons-Alfort, France. (2)Université Paris Est, ANSES, Maisons-Alfort
Laboratory for Food Safety, F-94701 Maisons-Alfort, France. Electronic address:
sylvie.perelle@anses.fr.

Raw fruits may harbour many pathogens of public health concern including enteric 
viruses, which are the leading cause of foodborne outbreaks. Recently,
consumption of soft berries has been associated with increasing reports of
norovirus and hepatitis A virus outbreaks in Europe. Due to their low infectious 
doses and low concentrations in food samples, an efficient and sensitive
analytical method is required for virus detection. In this study we explored two 
different ways to improve the reference method for the detection of enteric
viruses in soft fruits (ISO/TS 15216-1; 15216-2): an additional purification step
after RNA extraction; and the detection of enteric viral genome by an absolute
quantification method (microfluidic digital RT-PCR). Both of these approaches led
to an improvement of enteric virus detection in soft berries by greatly lowering 
PCR inhibition, raising viral extraction efficiencies and enabling validation of 
controls using pure RNA extracts. The PCR inhibitor removal step can be easily
included in the routine method. Absolute quantification by digital RT-PCR may be 
a relevant alternative method to standardize quantification of enteric viruses in
foodstuffs.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2016.11.022 
PMID: 27960104 


164. PLoS Med. 2016 Dec 13;13(12):e1002197. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1002197.
eCollection 2016.

Histological Transformation and Progression in Follicular Lymphoma: A Clonal
Evolution Study.

Kridel R(1), Chan FC(1,)(2), Mottok A(1,)(3), Boyle M(1), Farinha P(1), Tan K(1),
Meissner B(1), Bashashati A(4), McPherson A(4), Roth A(2,)(4), Shumansky K(4),
Yap D(4), Ben-Neriah S(1), Rosner J(4), Smith MA(2,)(4), Nielsen C(4), Giné E(1),
Telenius A(1), Ennishi D(1), Mungall A(5), Moore R(5), Morin RD(5,)(6), Johnson
NA(7), Sehn LH(1), Tousseyn T(8,)(9), Dogan A(10,)(11), Connors JM(1), Scott
DW(1), Steidl C(1,)(3), Marra MA(5), Gascoyne RD(1,)(3), Shah SP(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Lymphoid Cancer, BC Cancer Agency, Vancouver, British Columbia,
Canada. (2)Bioinformatics Graduate Program, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. (3)Department of Pathology and Laboratory
Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(4)Department of Molecular Oncology, BC Cancer Agency, Vancouver, British
Columbia, Canada. (5)Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre, BC Cancer Agency,
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. (6)Department of Molecular Biology and
Biochemistry, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, British Columbia, Canada.
(7)Jewish General Hospital, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. (8)Translational Cell and
Tissue Research Lab, Department for Imaging and Pathology, University of Leuven
(KU Leuven), Leuven, Belgium. (9)Department of Pathology, Universitaire
Ziekenhuizen Leuven (UZ Leuven), Leuven, Belgium. (10)Department of Laboratory
and Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, United States of America.
(11)Departments of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering
Cancer Center, New York, New York, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Follicular lymphoma (FL) is an indolent, yet incurable B cell
malignancy. A subset of patients experience an increased mortality rate driven by
two distinct clinical end points: histological transformation and early
progression after immunochemotherapy. The nature of tumor clonal dynamics leading
to these clinical end points is poorly understood, and previously determined
genetic alterations do not explain the majority of transformed cases or
accurately predict early progressive disease. We contend that detailed knowledge 
of the expansion patterns of specific cell populations plus their associated
mutations would provide insight into therapeutic strategies and disease biology
over the time course of FL clinical histories.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Using a combination of whole genome sequencing, targeted
deep sequencing, and digital droplet PCR on matched diagnostic and relapse
specimens, we deciphered the constituent clonal populations in 15 transformation 
cases and 6 progression cases, and measured the change in clonal population
abundance over time. We observed widely divergent patterns of clonal dynamics in 
transformed cases relative to progressed cases. Transformation specimens were
generally composed of clones that were rare or absent in diagnostic specimens,
consistent with dramatic clonal expansions that came to dominate the
transformation specimens. This pattern was independent of time to transformation 
and treatment modality. By contrast, early progression specimens were composed of
clones that were already present in the diagnostic specimens and exhibited only
moderate clonal dynamics, even in the presence of immunochemotherapy. Analysis of
somatic mutations impacting 94 genes was undertaken in an extension cohort
consisting of 395 samples from 277 patients in order to decipher disrupted
biology in the two clinical end points. We found 12 genes that were more commonly
mutated in transformed samples than in the preceding FL tumors, including TP53,
B2M, CCND3, GNA13, S1PR2, and P2RY8. Moreover, ten genes were more commonly
mutated in diagnostic specimens of patients with early progression, including
TP53, BTG1, MKI67, and XBP1.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results illuminate contrasting modes of evolution shaping the
clinical histories of transformation and progression. They have implications for 
interpretation of evolutionary dynamics in the context of treatment-induced
selective pressures, and indicate that transformation and progression will
require different clinical management strategies.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1002197 
PMCID: PMC5154502
PMID: 27959929 

Conflict of interest statement: I have read the journal's policy and the authors 
of this manuscript have the following competing interests: SPS is a founder and
shareholder of Contextual Genomics Inc., developer of clinical genomic tests for 
cancer.


165. Anal Chem. 2017 Jan 3;89(1):822-829. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.6b03687. Epub 2016
Dec 13.

Droplet-Based Multivolume Digital Polymerase Chain Reaction by a Surface-Assisted
Multifactor Fluid Segmentation Approach.

Liu WW(1), Zhu Y(1), Feng YM(2), Fang J(2), Fang Q(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Microanalytical Systems, Department of Chemistry and Innovation
Center for Cell Signaling Network, Zhejiang University , Hangzhou, 310058, China.
(2)Department of Cell Biology, China Medical University , Shenyang, 110001,
China.

Here we developed the surface-assisted multifactor fluid segmentation (SAMFS), an
automated, fast, and flexible approach for generating a two-dimensional droplet
array with tunable droplet volumes, for multivolume digital polymerase chain
reaction (PCR). The SAMFS was developed based on the combination of robotic
liquid handling and surface-assisted droplet generation techniques, where a
continuous aqueous stream that flowed out from a capillary probe was segmented
and immobilized on hydrophilic micropillars of a microchip into massive
oil-covered droplets with the probe rapidly scanning over the microchip. We
studied various factors affecting the droplet generation process, including
micropillar top area, distance between adjacent micropillars, aqueous stream flow
rate, and microchip moving speed, and demonstrated a high droplet generation
throughput up to 50 droplets/s and a largest droplet volume adjusting range from 
0.25 to 350 nL. The SAMFS approach was adopted to form an oil-covered array of
994 droplets with four different volumes (1.2, 6, 30, and 150 nL droplets)
required for multivolume digital PCR within 8 min. The droplet array system was
applied in absolute quantification of plasmid DNA under the multivolume digital
PCR mode with a dynamic range spanning 4 orders of magnitude, as well as
measurement of HER2 expression levels in different breast cancer cell lines. The 
results are consistent to those obtained by quantitative real-time PCR method,
while the present one has higher precision.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.6b03687 
PMID: 27959506 


166. PeerJ. 2016 Dec 8;4:e2744. eCollection 2016.

Identification of canine papillomavirus by PCR in Greyhound dogs.

Anis EA(1), Frank LA(2), Francisco R(2), Kania SA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical and Diagnostic Sciences, University of Tennessee,
Knoxville, TN, United States of America; Department of Virology, University of
Sadat, Sadat City, Egypt. (2)Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences,
University of Tennessee , Knoxville , TN , United States of America.
(3)Department of Biomedical and Diagnostic Sciences, University of Tennessee ,
Knoxville , TN , United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Corns are hard protuberances that occur on the digital footpads of
Greyhound dogs. The cause of these lesions is unknown and there is little
information about them in the veterinary literature. We received anecdotal
examples of dog to dog spread of corns suggesting an infectious cause. The aim of
this study was to determine if papillomavirus (PV) is associated with Greyhound
corns.
METHODS: We examined four corns from two unrelated adult Greyhound dogs that
resided in Florida and Washington, respectively, for PV by PCR. The samples were 
obtained by owner coring of two lesions from one dog and laser removal of two
lesions from the other dog. Total nucleic acid was extracted and DNA was
amplified using two PCR primer sets that have been shown to amplify a broad range
of PVs from humans and animals: FAP59/ FAP64 and MY11/ MY09. The DNA sequences
were compared with all sequences in GenBank. Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded
tissue from the footpads of four dogs with other inflammatory dermatoses were
also examined.
RESULTS: PV DNA was amplified from all four corn lesions, while no PV DNA was
amplified from other tissues. Comparison of the 444-bp sequences amplified by the
MY11/ MY09 primers identified two different PVs. One showed 96% nucleotide
sequence similarity with the L1 gene of canine PV type 12. The other showed 78%
similarity to canine PV type 16 and, therefore, represents a novel PV. In one of 
the corns, infection by two of the identified PVs was found.
DISCUSSION: These results suggest PV infection could be involved in the
pathogenesis of corns in Greyhound dogs.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.2744 
PMCID: PMC5149057
PMID: 27957392 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare there are no competing
interests.


167. Methods Mol Biol. 2017;1545:55-70.

Quantitative Analysis of Exosomal miRNA via qPCR and Digital PCR.

Bellingham SA(1,)(2), Shambrook M(3), Hill AF(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, The University of Melbourne,
Melbourne, VIC, Australia. (2)Bio21 Molecular Science and Biotechnology
Institute, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, Australia. (3)Department 
of Biochemistry and Genetics, La Trobe Institute for Molecular Science, La Trobe 
University, Room 415, LIMS1, Bundoora, Melbourne, VIC, 3086, Australia.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Genetics, La Trobe Institute for Molecular
Science, La Trobe University, Bundoora, VIC, Australia.
Andrew.hill@latrobe.edu.au.

Extracellular vesicles, such as exosomes and microvesicles, have been shown to
contain potential microRNA (miRNA) biomarkers that may be utilized in the
diagnosis of various diseases from cancer to neurological disorders. The unique
nature of the extracellular vesicle bilayer allows miRNA to be protected from
degradation making it an ideal source of material for biomarkers discovery from
both fresh and archived samples. Here we describe the quantitative analysis of
miRNA isolated from exosomes by quantitative PCR and digital PCR.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-6728-5_5 
PMID: 27943207 


168. Int J Mol Sci. 2016 Dec 7;17(12). pii: E1838.

Transcriptional Response of Silkworm (Bombyx mori) Eggs to O₂ or HCl Treatment.

Gong J(1), Tian S(2), Zhou X(3), Yang H(4), Zhu Y(5), Hou Y(6).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Silkworm Genome Biology, College of Biotechnology,
Southwest University, Chongqing 400715, China. 03gongjing@163.com. (2)State Key
Laboratory of Silkworm Genome Biology, College of Biotechnology, Southwest
University, Chongqing 400715, China. tiansha1015@163.com. (3)State Key Laboratory
of Silkworm Genome Biology, College of Biotechnology, Southwest University,
Chongqing 400715, China. zhouxiagz@163.com. (4)State Key Laboratory of Silkworm
Genome Biology, College of Biotechnology, Southwest University, Chongqing 400715,
China. m18183079489@163.com. (5)State Key Laboratory of Silkworm Genome Biology, 
College of Biotechnology, Southwest University, Chongqing 400715, China.
zhuy@swu.edu.cn. (6)State Key Laboratory of Silkworm Genome Biology, College of
Biotechnology, Southwest University, Chongqing 400715, China. yhou@swu.edu.cn.

Diapause is a common biological phenomenon that occurs in many organisms,
including fish, insects, and nematodes. In the silkworm (Bombyx mori), diapause
generally occurs in the egg stage. Treatment with O₂, HCl, or other compounds can
prevent egg diapause. Here, we characterized the transcriptomic responses of
newly laid eggs treated with O₂ or HCl. Digital gene expression analysis showed
that 610 genes in O₂-treated eggs and 656 in HCl-treated eggs were differentially
expressed. Of these, 343 genes were differentially expressed in both treatments. 
In addition to trehalases, sorbic acid dehydrogenases, and some enzymes involved 
in the carbohydrate metabolism, we also identified heat shock proteins,
cytochrome P450, and GADD45, which are related to stress tolerance. Gene ontology
enrichment analysis showed differentially expressed genes in O₂-treated eggs were
involved in oxidoreductase activity as well as in binding, catalytic, and
metabolic processes. The Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analysis showed 
that the pathways for ribosome biogenesis, spliceosome, and circadian rhythm were
significantly enriched in HCl-treated eggs. The reliability of the data was
confirmed by qRT-PCR analysis. Our results improved the understanding of the
mechanism of diapause blocking in silkworm eggs treated with O₂ or HCl and
identified novel molecular targets for future studies.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms17121838 
PMCID: PMC5187757
PMID: 27941611 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


169. Clin Chem. 2017 Feb;63(2):532-541. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2016.261834. Epub 2016
Dec 9.

Next Generation Sequencing of Circulating Cell-Free DNA for Evaluating Mutations 
and Gene Amplification in Metastatic Breast Cancer.

Page K(1), Guttery DS(1), Fernandez-Garcia D(1), Hills A(2), Hastings RK(1), Luo 
J(1), Goddard K(3), Shahin V(3), Woodley-Barker L(3), Rosales BM(2), Coombes
RC(2), Stebbing J(4), Shaw JA(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cancer Studies and Cancer Research UK Leicester Centre,
University of Leicester, Leicester, UK. (2)Department of Surgery and Cancer,
Division of Cancer, and. (3)Department of Medical Oncology, Imperial College
London, Charing Cross Hospital, London, UK. (4)Department of Surgery and Cancer, 
Division of Cancer, and js39@le.ac.uk j.stebbing@imperial.ac.uk. (5)Department of
Cancer Studies and Cancer Research UK Leicester Centre, University of Leicester, 
Leicester, UK; js39@le.ac.uk j.stebbing@imperial.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer tissues are heterogeneous and show diverse somatic
mutations and somatic copy number alterations (CNAs). We used a novel targeted
next generation sequencing (NGS) panel to examine cell-free DNA (cfDNA) to detect
somatic mutations and gene amplification in women with metastatic breast cancer
(MBC).
METHODS: cfDNA from pretreated patients (n = 42) and 9 healthy controls were
compared with matched lymphocyte DNA by NGS, using a custom 158 amplicon panel
covering hot-spot mutations and CNAs in 16 genes, with further validation of
results by droplet digital PCR.
RESULTS: No mutations were identified in cfDNA of healthy controls, whereas
exactly half the patients with metastatic breast cancer had at least one mutation
or amplification in cfDNA (mean 2, range 1-6) across a total of 13 genes.
Longitudinal follow up showed dynamic changes to mutations and gene amplification
in cfDNA indicating clonal and subclonal response to treatment that was more
dynamic than cancer antigen 15-3 (CA15-3). Interestingly, at the time of blood
sampling disease progression was occurring in 7 patients with erb-b2 receptor
tyrosine kinase 2 (ERBB2) gene amplification in their cfDNA and 3 of these
patients were human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) negative at
diagnosis, suggesting clonal evolution to a more aggressive phenotype. Lastly, 6 
patients harbored estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) mutations in cfDNA, suggesting
resistance to endocrine therapy. Overall 9 of 42 patients (21%) had alterations
in cfDNA that could herald a change in treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Targeted NGS of cfDNA has potential for monitoring response to
targeted therapies through both mutations and gene amplification, for analysis of
dynamic tumor heterogeneity and stratification to targeted therapy.

© 2016 American Association for Clinical Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2016.261834 
PMID: 27940449 


170. Clin Chim Acta. 2017 Feb;465:1-4. doi: 10.1016/j.cca.2016.12.004. Epub 2016 Dec
7.

Comparison of the quantification of KRAS mutations by digital PCR and
E-ice-COLD-PCR in circulating-cell-free DNA from metastatic colorectal cancer
patients.

Sefrioui D(1), Mauger F(2), Leclere L(2), Beaussire L(3), Di Fiore F(1), Deleuze 
JF(2), Sarafan-Vasseur N(3), Tost J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Digestive Oncology Unit, Rouen University Hospital, France; Inserm U1079, Iron
group, IRIB, University of Rouen, Normandy University, Rouen University Hospital,
Normandy Center for Genomic and Personalized Medicine, Rouen, France.
(2)Laboratory for Epigenetics and Environment, Centre National de Génotypage,
CEA-Institut de Génomique, Evry, France. (3)Inserm U1079, Iron group, IRIB,
University of Rouen, Normandy University, Rouen University Hospital, Normandy
Center for Genomic and Personalized Medicine, Rouen, France. (4)Laboratory for
Epigenetics and Environment, Centre National de Génotypage, CEA-Institut de
Génomique, Evry, France. Electronic address: tost@cng.fr.

Circulating cell-free DNA (ccfDNA) bears great promise as biomarker for
personalized medicine, but ccfDNA is present only at low levels in the plasma or 
serum of cancer patients. E-ice-COLD-PCR is a recently developed enrichment
method to detect and identify mutations present at low-abundance in clinical
samples. However, recent studies have shown the importance to accurately quantify
low-abundance mutations as clinically important decisions will depend on certain 
mutation thresholds. The possibility for an enrichment method to accurately
quantify the mutation levels remains a point of concern and might limit its
clinical applicability. In the present study, we compared the quantification of
KRAS mutations in ccfDNA from metastatic colorectal cancer patients by
E-ice-COLD-PCR with two digital PCR approaches. For the quantification of
mutations by E-ice-COLD-PCR, cell lines with known mutations diluted into WT
genomic DNA were used for calibration. E-ice-COLD-PCR and the two digital PCR
approaches showed the same range of the mutation level and were concordant for
mutation levels below the clinical relevant threshold. E-ice-COLD-PCR can
accurately detect and quantify low-abundant mutations in ccfDNA and has a shorter
time to results making it compatible with the requirements of analyses in a
clinical setting without the loss of quantitative accuracy.

Copyright © 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cca.2016.12.004 
PMID: 27940131  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. PLoS One. 2016 Dec 9;11(12):e0167551. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0167551.
eCollection 2016.

Transcriptome Analysis of Ceriops tagal in Saline Environments Using
RNA-Sequencing.

Xiao X(1,)(2), Hong Y(1,)(2), Xia W(1,)(2), Feng S(1,)(2), Zhou X(1,)(2), Fu
X(1,)(2), Zang J(1,)(2), Xiao Y(1,)(2), Niu X(1,)(2), Li C(1,)(2), Chen Y(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Hainan Key Laboratory for Sustainable Utilization of Tropical Bioresource,
Hainan University, Haikou, P.R China. (2)College of Agriculture, Hainan
University, Haikou, P.R China.

Identification of genes involved in mangrove species' adaptation to salt stress
can provide valuable information for developing salt-tolerant crops and
understanding the molecular evolution of salt tolerance in halophiles. Ceriops
tagal is a salt-tolerant mangrove tree growing in mudflats and marshes in
tropical and subtropical areas, without any prior genome information. In this
study, we assessed the biochemical and transcriptional responses of C. tagal to
high salt treatment (500 mmol/L NaCl) by hydroponic experiments and RNA-seq. In
C. tagal root tissues under salt stress, proline accumulated strongly from 3 to
12 h of treatment; meanwhile, malondialdehyde content progressively increased
from 0 to 9 h, then dropped to lower than control levels by 24 h. These implied
that C. tagal plants could survive salt stress through biochemical modification. 
Using the Illumina sequencing platform, approximately 27.39 million RNA-seq reads
were obtained from three salt-treated and control (untreated) root samples. These
reads were assembled into 47,111 transcripts with an average length of 514 bp and
an N50 of 632 bp. Approximately 78% of the transcripts were annotated, and a
total of 437 genes were putative transcription factors. Digital gene expression
analysis was conducted by comparing transcripts from the untreated control to the
three salt treated samples, and 7,330 differentially expressed transcripts were
identified. Using k-means clustering, these transcripts were divided into six
clusters that differed in their expression patterns across four treatment time
points. The genes identified as being up- or downregulated are involved in salt
stress responses, signal transduction, and DNA repair. Our study shows the main
adaptive pathway of C. tagal in saline environments, under short-term and
long-term treatments of salt stress. This provides vital clues as to which genes 
may be candidates for breeding salt-tolerant crops and clarifying molecular
mechanisms of salt tolerance in C. tagal. The expression levels of 20 candidate
genes measured by RNA-Seq were validated via qRT-PCR. Eighteen genes showed
consistent expression patterns in RNA-Seq and qRT-PCR results, suggesting that
the RNA-seq dataset was dependable for gene expression pattern analysis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0167551 
PMCID: PMC5147905
PMID: 27936168 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to
declare.


172. Anal Chem. 2017 Feb 7;89(3):1724-1733. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.6b03980. Epub
2017 Jan 18.

International Interlaboratory Digital PCR Study Demonstrating High
Reproducibility for the Measurement of a Rare Sequence Variant.

Whale AS(1), Devonshire AS(1), Karlin-Neumann G(2), Regan J(2), Javier L(2),
Cowen S(3), Fernandez-Gonzalez A(1), Jones GM(1), Redshaw N(1), Beck J(4), Berger
AW(5), Combaret V(6), Dahl Kjersgaard N(7), Davis L(8), Fina F(9), Forshew T(10),
Fredslund Andersen R(11), Galbiati S(12), González Hernández Á(13), Haynes
CA(14), Janku F(15), Lacave R(16), Lee J(17), Mistry V(18), Pender A(19),
Pradines A(20), Proudhon C(21), Saal LH(22), Stieglitz E(23), Ulrich B(24), Foy
CA(1), Parkes H(1), Tzonev S(2), Huggett JF(1,)(25).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Cell Biology Team, LGC , Queens Road, Teddington, Middlesex TW11
0LY, United Kingdom. (2)Digital Biology Center, Bio-Rad Laboratories , 5731 West 
Las Positas, Pleasanton, California 94588, United States. (3)Statistics Team, LGC
, Queens Road, Teddington, Middlesex TW11 0LY, United Kingdom. (4)Chronix
Biomedical , Goetheallee 8, 37073 Goettingen, Germany. (5)Department of Internal 
Medicine I, Ulm University , Albert-Einstein-Allee 23, 89081, Ulm, Germany.
(6)Laboratoire de Recherche Translationnelle, Centre Léon-Bérard , Lyon, F-69008,
France. (7)Sjællands Universitetshospital , Klinisk Biokemisk Afdeling,
Molekylærenhed, Sygehusvej 10, 4000 Roskilde, Denmark. (8)Genoptix Inc. , 1811
Aston Avenue, Carlsbad, California 92008, United States. (9)Service de Transfert 
d'Oncologie Biologique, Laboratoire de Biologie Médicale, Faculte de médecine
Nord , Boulevard Pierre Dramard, Marseille 13916 cedex 20, France. (10)UCL Cancer
Institute , Paul O'Gorman Building, 72 Huntley Street, London WC1E 6DD, United
Kingdom. (11)Department of Clinical Immunology and Biochemistry, Vejle Hospital ,
Kabbeltoft 25, 7100 Vejle, Denmark. (12)Division of Genetics and Cell Biology,
IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute , via Olgettina 60, 20132 Milano, Italy. 
(13)Department of Pediatrics and CIMA LAB Diagnostics, Clínica Universidad de
Navarra , Avenida Pío XII 36, 31008 Pamplona, Spain. (14)Michael Smith
Laboratories, University of British Columbia , 301 Michael Smith Building, 2185
East Mall, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada. (15)The University of Texas MD Anderson
Cancer Center , Department of Investigational Cancer Therapeutics (Phase I
Clinical Trials Program), 1515 Holcombe Boulevard 0455, Houston, Texas 77030,
United States. (16)Solid Tumours Genomics Unit, Tenon Hospital, APHP and
Université Pierre et Marie Curie , 4 rue de la Chine, 75970 Paris, France.
(17)Johns Hopkins , 1650 Orleans St., Baltimore, Maryland 21287, United States.
(18)Department of Cancer Studies, University of Leicester , Robert Kilpatrick
Clinical Sciences Building, Leicester Royal Infirmary, Leicester LE2 7LX, United 
Kingdom. (19)Lung Cancer Group, Division of Molecular Pathology, The Institute of
Cancer Research , 123 Old Brompton Road, London SW7 3RP, United Kingdom.
(20)Institut Claudius Regaud - IUCTO , Laboratoire de Biologie Medicale
Oncologique, 1 avenue Irène Joliot-Curie, Toulouse 31059 cedex 9, France.
(21)Institut Curie, PSL Research University, SiRIC , Laboratory of Circulating
Tumor Biomarkers, 26 rue d'Ulm, 75005 Paris, France. (22)Department of Oncology
and Pathology, Lund University , Scheelevägen 2, MV 404-B2, SE-22381, Lund,
Sweden. (23)Department of Pediatrics, Benioff Children's Hospital, UCSF Helen
Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center , 1450 Third Street, San Francisco,
California 94158, United States. (24)Dana Farber Cancer Institute , Belfer Center
for Applied Cancer Science and Department of Medical Oncology, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, United States. (25)School of Biosciences & Medicine, Faculty
of Health & Medical Science, University of Surrey , Guildford, Surrey GU2 7XH,
United Kingdom.

This study tested the claim that digital PCR (dPCR) can offer highly reproducible
quantitative measurements in disparate laboratories. Twenty-one laboratories
measured four blinded samples containing different quantities of a KRAS fragment 
encoding G12D, an important genetic marker for guiding therapy of certain
cancers. This marker is challenging to quantify reproducibly using quantitative
PCR (qPCR) or next generation sequencing (NGS) due to the presence of competing
wild type sequences and the need for calibration. Using dPCR, 18 laboratories
were able to quantify the G12D marker within 12% of each other in all samples.
Three laboratories appeared to measure consistently outlying results; however,
proper application of a follow-up analysis recommendation rectified their data.
Our findings show that dPCR has demonstrable reproducibility across a large
number of laboratories without calibration. This could enable the reproducible
application of molecular stratification to guide therapy and, potentially, for
molecular diagnostics.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.6b03980 
PMID: 27935690 


173. Cancer Nanotechnol. 2016;7(1):10. Epub 2016 Nov 22.

Profiling lung adenocarcinoma by liquid biopsy: can one size fit all?

Clifford HW(1), Cassidy AP(2), Vaughn C(3), Tsai ES(4), Seres B(5), Patel N(6),
O'Neill HL(7), Hewage E(8), Cassidy JW(9).

Author information: 
(1)OneTest Diagnostics, Cambridge Applied Research, Future Business Centre,
Cambridge, UK ; St. Edmund Hall, University of Oxford, Queen's Lane, Oxford, UK. 
(2)NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK. (3)UNC
School of Medicine, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC USA. (4)OneTest
Diagnostics, Cambridge Applied Research, Future Business Centre, Cambridge, UK ; 
Peterhouse, University of Cambridge, Trumpington Street, Cambridge, UK. (5)Max
Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry, Göttingen, Germany. (6)OneTest
Diagnostics, Cambridge Applied Research, Future Business Centre, Cambridge, UK ; 
Division of Cancer Studies, King's Health Partners AHSC, Faculty of Life Sciences
and Medicine, King's College London, London, UK. (7)Aberdeen Royal Infirmary,
University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK. (8)OneTest Diagnostics, Cambridge Applied
Research, Future Business Centre, Cambridge, UK. (9)OneTest Diagnostics,
Cambridge Applied Research, Future Business Centre, Cambridge, UK ; Queens'
College, University of Cambridge, Silver Street, Cambridge, UK ; Cancer Research 
UK Cambridge Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.

BACKGROUND: Cancer is first and foremost a disease of the genome. Specific
genetic signatures within a tumour are prognostic of disease outcome, reflect
subclonal architecture and intratumour heterogeneity, inform treatment choices
and predict the emergence of resistance to targeted therapies. Minimally invasive
liquid biopsies can give temporal resolution to a tumour's genetic profile and
allow the monitoring of treatment response through levels of circulating tumour
DNA (ctDNA). However, the detection of ctDNA in repeated liquid biopsies is
currently limited by economic and time constraints associated with targeted
sequencing.
METHODS: Here we bioinformatically profile the mutational and copy number
spectrum of The Cancer Genome Network's lung adenocarcinoma dataset to uncover
recurrently mutated genomic loci.
RESULTS: We build a panel of 400 hotspot mutations and show that the coverage
extends to more than 80% of the dataset at a median depth of 8 mutations per
patient. Additionally, we uncover several novel single-nucleotide variants
present in more than 5% of patients, often in genes not commonly associated with 
lung adenocarcinoma.
CONCLUSION: With further optimisation, this hotspot panel could allow molecular
diagnostics laboratories to build curated primer banks for 'off-the-shelf'
monitoring of ctDNA by droplet-based digital PCR or similar techniques, in a
time- and cost-effective manner.

DOI: 10.1186/s12645-016-0023-8 
PMCID: PMC5119837
PMID: 27933110 


174. Curr Cancer Drug Targets. 2016 Dec 8. [Epub ahead of print]

New candidate genes for lack of sensitivity to therapy in pediatric leukemias.

Bereza W, Szczepanek J(1), Laskowska J, Tretyn A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Physiology and Biotechnology, Nicolaus Copernicus
University, Lwowska 1, 87-100 Torun, Poland. szczepanekjoanna@gmail.com.

In recent years, significant development of molecular genetics has contributed to
the better understanding of leukemogenesis and classification of the different
leukemia subtypes. Patients diagnosed with acute leukemia usually undergo
chemotherapy, which involves the induction of remission, consolidation of
remission and maintenance therapy. Patients are still vulnerable to relapse due
to differences in the sensitivity of leukemia cells to the chemotherapeutic
agent, because of the active drugs removal from the cells, improving the repair
of DNA damage or abnormalities in the apoptotic pathway. Cell adhesion and miRNA 
expression level also affect the drug resistance. New candidate genes and genes
correlated with the disease have been sought to increase the survival of patients
with leukemia. Candidate gene is usually a loci located in a certain chromosomal 
region suspected of involvement to the disease course or its expression product
regulates disease progression. There are classic and digital method of finding
candidate genes. These techniques are inexpensive, quick and easy to carry out.
Unfortunately, due to insufficient knowledge of the disease etiology and low
accuracy, researchers cannot detect all genes, involved in leukemogenesis and
cell resistance. Currently, scientists have many tools used for selecting genes, 
such as expression microarrays, comparative genomic hybridization and
next-generation sequencing. Among the validation techniques for candidate genes, 
the mostly used ones are fluorescent in situ hybridization and real-time PCR. In 
our review we present 18 candidate genes of resistance to therapy in childhood
leukemia.


PMID: 27928969 


175. Microbiol Immunol. 2016 Dec;60(12):817-823. doi: 10.1111/1348-0421.12454.

Non-exponential growth of Mycobacterium leprae Thai-53 strain cultured in vitro.

Amako K(1), Iida KI(1), Saito M(1), Ogura Y(1), Hayashi T(1), Yoshida SI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bacteriology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Kyushu University,
3-1-1 Maidashi Higashi-ku Fukuoka 812-8582, Japan.

In this study, attempts were made to culture this bacterium in media supplemented
with a variety of biological materials to determine why cultivation of
Mycobacterium leprae in vitro has not this far been successful. A slight increase
in the number of cells in medium supplemented with human blood plasma and an
extract of nude mouse tissue as observed after more than 3 months of cultivation 
at 30 °C. To ascertain whether this increase was real growth, the growth was
analyzed by droplet digital PCR, which showed a slow increase in the copy number 
of cell-associated DNA and the release of a large amount of DNA into the culture 
medium from bacterial cells during cultivation. These results were supported by
electron microscopic examination of M. leprae in infected mouse tissues, which
showed that most of the replicated bacteria had degenerated and only a few cells 
survived. Based on these results, it was postulated that many of the replicated
cells degenerate during M. leprae growth and that only a few cells remain to
participate in the next growth stage. This means that, unlike other cultivable
bacteria, the growth of M. leprae is not exponential and the number of cells
therefore increase extremely slowly. Thus, accurate judging of the success of M. 
leprae cultivation requires observation of growth over a long period of time and 
careful measurement of the increase in number of viable cells.

© 2016 The Authors. Microbiology and Immunology published by The Societies and
John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1348-0421.12454 
PMCID: PMC5299511
PMID: 27925336 


176. Sci Rep. 2016 Dec 7;6:37153. doi: 10.1038/srep37153.

Development of novel noninvasive prenatal testing protocol for whole autosomal
recessive disease using picodroplet digital PCR.

Chang MY(1), Kim AR(2), Kim MY(3), Kim S(4), Yoon J(5), Han JJ(3), Ahn S(6), Kang
C(7), Choi BY(3,)(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Chung-Ang University 
College of Medicine, 102 Heukseok-ro, Dongjak-gu, Seoul, 06973, Republic of
Korea. (2)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Seoul National University Hospital, 
Seoul national University College of Medicine, 101 Daehak-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul
03080, Republic of Korea. (3)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Seoul National
University Bundang Hospital, 82 Gumi-ro 173 beon-gil, Bundang-gu, Seongnam,
13620, Republic of Korea. (4)LAS Inc., 16 Arayuk-ro, Gimpo, 10136, Republic of
Korea. (5)Bio-Medical Science Co., Ltd., BMS Bldg., 22 Yeoksam-ro 7-gil,
Gangnam-gu, Seoul 06244, Republic of Korea. (6)Medical Research Collaborating
Center, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, 82 Gumi-ro 173 beon-gil,
Bundang-gu, Seongnam, 13620, Republic of Korea. (7)Department of Biology and
Research Institute of Basic Sciences, College of Natural Sciences, Sungshin
Women's University, Dongseon-dong 3(sam)-ga, Seongbuk-gu, Seoul, 01133, Republic 
of Korea. (8)Wide River Institute of Immunology, Seoul National University
College of Medicine, 101 Dabyeonbat-gil, Hwachon-myeon, Hongcheon, 25159,
Republic of Korea.

We developed a protocol of noninvasive prenatal testing (NIPT), employing a
higher-resolution picodroplet digital PCR, to detect genetic imbalance in
maternal plasma DNA (mpDNA) caused by cell-free fetal DNA (cffDNA). In the
present study, this approach was applied to four families with autosomal
recessive (AR) congenital sensorineural hearing loss. First, a fraction of the
fetal DNA in mpDNA was calculated. Then, we made artificial DNA mixtures
(positive and negative controls) to simulate mpDNA containing the fraction of
cffDNA with or without mutations. Next, a fraction of mutant cluster signals over
the total signals was measured from mpDNA, positive controls, and negative
controls. We determined whether fetal DNA carried any paternal or maternal
mutations by calculating and comparing the sum of the log-likelihood of the study
samples. Of the four families, we made a successful prediction of the complete
fetal genotype in two cases where a distinct cluster was identified for each
genotype and the fraction of cffDNA in mpDNA was at least 6.4%. Genotyping of
only paternal mutation was possible in one of the other two families. This is the
first NIPT protocol potentially applicable to any AR monogenic disease with
various genotypes, including point mutations.

DOI: 10.1038/srep37153 
PMCID: PMC5141438
PMID: 27924908 


177. Physiol Mol Biol Plants. 2016 Oct;22(4):485-495. Epub 2016 Oct 14.

Overexpression of Panax ginseng sesquiterpene synthase gene confers tolerance
against Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato in Arabidopsis thaliana.

Yoon SJ(1), Sukweenadhi J(2), Khorolragchaa A(1), Mathiyalagan R(2), Subramaniyam
S(1), Kim YJ(1), Kim HB(3), Kim MJ(3), Kim YJ(1), Yang DC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oriental Medicinal Biotechnology, College of Life Science, Kyung
Hee University, Yongin, 449-701 Korea. (2)Graduate School of Biotechnology,
College of Life Science, Kyung Hee University, Yongin, 446- 701 Korea.
(3)Woongjin Foods Co., Ltd., JEI-PLATZ, 186, Gasan Digital 1-ro, Room 201,
Gemcheon-gu, Seoul, 153-792 Korea. (4)Department of Oriental Medicinal
Biotechnology, College of Life Science, Kyung Hee University, Yongin, 449-701
Korea ; Graduate School of Biotechnology, College of Life Science, Kyung Hee
University, Yongin, 446- 701 Korea.

Sesquiterpenes are an abundant group belonging to the terpenoid family, with a
C15 structure comprise of three isoprene units. Many sesquiterpenes are volatile 
compounds and it act as chemical messenger in plant signalling, particularly in
the defense mechanism against biotic and abiotic stresses. Panax ginseng Meyer is
important medicinal herbs with various reported pharmacological efficacies in
which its triterpenoid saponins, called ginsenosides, were mostly studied.
However, there have been few studies on volatile sesquiterpenes compounds
regulation on P. ginseng. As slow-growing perennial plant, P. ginseng received
many kind of stresses during its cultivation. The pathogen attack is one of the
most devastated perturbation for ginseng yield. Thus, we aimed to analyze P.
ginseng STS gene (PgSTS) expressions in ginseng organs as well as mono-,
sesquiterpenes contents from ginseng seedlings treated with elicitors. qRT-PCR
and GC-MS analysis showed that two elicitors- salicylic acid (SA) and methyl
jasmonate (MeJA) triggered PgSTS expression at different time points and
significantly induced mono-, sesquiterpene yield. Overexpression of PgSTS in
Arabidopsis also induced high terpene content and conferred tolerance against
Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato infection. These results suggested that PgSTS
transcripts are involved in terpenoid biosynthesis in response to environmental
stress mediated by MeJA and SA elicitors; thus, generate tolerance against
pathogen attack.

DOI: 10.1007/s12298-016-0384-9 
PMCID: PMC5120041 [Available on 2017-10-01]
PMID: 27924121 


178. BMC Mol Biol. 2016 Dec 6;17(1):23.

3C-digital PCR for quantification of chromatin interactions.

Du M(1), Wang L(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and MCW Cancer Center, Medical College of Wisconsin,
Milwaukee, WI, 53226, USA. (2)Department of Pathology and MCW Cancer Center,
Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI, 53226, USA. liwang@mcw.edu.

BACKGROUND: Chromosome conformation capture (3C) is a powerful and widely used
technique for detecting the physical interactions between chromatin regions in
vivo. The principle of 3C is to convert physical chromatin interactions into
specific DNA ligation products, which are then detected by quantitative
polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). However, 3C-qPCR assays are often complicated
by the necessity of normalization controls to correct for amplification biases.
In addition, qPCR is often limited to a certain cycle number, making it difficult
to detect fragment ligations with low frequency. Recently, digital PCR (dPCR)
technology has become available, which allows for highly sensitive nucleic acid
quantification. Main advantage of dPCR is its high precision of absolute nucleic 
acid quantification without requirement of normalization controls.
RESULTS: To demonstrate the utility of dPCR in quantifying chromatin
interactions, we examined two prostate cancer risk loci at 8q24 and 2p11.2 for
their interaction target genes MYC and CAPG in LNCaP cell line. We designed
anchor and testing primers at known regulatory element fragments and target gene 
regions, respectively. dPCR results showed that interaction frequency between the
regulatory element and MYC gene promoter was 0.7 (95% CI 0.40-1.10) copies per
1000 genome copies while other regions showed relatively low ligation
frequencies. The dPCR results also showed that the ligation frequencies between
the regulatory element and two EcoRI fragments containing CAPG gene promoter were
1.9 copies (95% CI 1.41-2.47) and 1.3 copies per 1000 genome copies (95%
CI 0.76-1.92), respectively, while the interaction signals were reduced on either
side of the promoter region of CAPG gene. Additionally, we observed comparable
results from 3C-dPCR and 3C-qPCR at 2p11.2 in another cell line (DU145).
CONCLUSIONS: Compared to traditional 3C-qPCR, our results show that 3C-dPCR is
much simpler and more sensitive to detect weak chromatin interactions. It may
eliminate multiple and complex normalization controls and provide accurate
calculation of proximity-based fragment ligation frequency. Therefore, we
recommend 3C-dPCR as a preferred method for sensitive detection of low frequency 
chromatin interactions.

DOI: 10.1186/s12867-016-0076-6 
PMCID: PMC5139078
PMID: 27923366 


179. J Neurovirol. 2017 Apr;23(2):283-289. doi: 10.1007/s13365-016-0497-5. Epub 2016
Dec 5.

Increased cell-free mitochondrial DNA is a marker of ongoing inflammation and
better neurocognitive function in virologically suppressed HIV-infected
individuals.

Pérez-Santiago J(1), De Oliveira MF(2), Var SR(3), Day TR(4), Woods SP(5),
Gianella S(2), Mehta SR(2,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)University of California San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive MC 0679, La Jolla, CA,
92093-0679, USA. joperez@ucsd.edu. (2)University of California San Diego, 9500
Gilman Drive MC 0679, La Jolla, CA, 92093-0679, USA. (3)Western Michigan
University, Kalamazoo, MI, USA. (4)Washington University, St. Louis, MI, USA.
(5)University of Houston, Houston, TX, USA. (6)Veterans Administration San Diego 
Healthcare System, San Diego, CA, USA.

Cell-free mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is a highly immunogenic molecule that is
associated with several inflammatory conditions and with neurocognitive
impairment during untreated HIV infection. Here, we investigate how cell-free
mtDNA in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is associated with inflammation, neuronal
damage, and neurocognitive functioning in the context of long-term suppressive
antiretroviral therapy (ART). We quantified the levels of cell-free mtDNA in the 
CSF from 41 HIV-infected individuals with completely suppressed HIV RNA levels in
blood plasma (<50 copies/mL) by droplet digital PCR. We measured soluble CD14,
soluble CD163, interferon γ-induced protein 10 (IP-10), monocyte chemoattractant 
protein-1 (MCP-1), interleukin 6 (IL-6), interleukin 8 (IL-8), tumor necrosis
factor-α (TNF-α), neopterin, and neurofilament light chain (NFL) by immunoassays 
in CSF supernatant or blood plasma. Higher levels of mtDNA in CSF were associated
with higher levels of MCP-1 (r = 0.56, p < 0.01) in CSF and TNF-α (r = 0.43,
p < 0.01) and IL-8 (r = 0.44, p < 0.01) in blood plasma. Subjects with a previous
diagnosis of AIDS showed significantly higher levels of mtDNA (p < 0.01) than
subjects without AIDS. The associations between mtDNA and MCP-1 in CSF and TNF-α 
in blood remained significant after adjusting for previous diagnosis of AIDS
(p < 0.01). Additionally, higher levels of mtDNA were associated with a lower CD4
nadir (r = -0.41, p < 0.01) and lower current CD4% (r = -0.34, p = 0.03).
Paradoxically, higher levels of mtDNA in CSF were significantly associated with
better neurocognitive performance (r = 0.43, p = 0.02) and with less neuronal
damage (i.e. lower NFL). Higher cell-free mtDNA is associated with inflammation
during treated HIV infection, but the impact on neurocognitive functioning and
neuronal damage remains unclear and may differ in the setting of suppressive ART.

DOI: 10.1007/s13365-016-0497-5 
PMID: 27921220 


180. J Pathol Clin Res. 2016 Jun 28;2(4):201-209. eCollection 2016.

Circulating human papillomavirus DNA detected using droplet digital PCR in the
serum of patients diagnosed with early stage human papillomavirus-associated
invasive carcinoma.

Jeannot E(1), Becette V(2), Campitelli M(3), Calméjane MA(1), Lappartient E(1),
Ruff E(2), Saada S(1), Holmes A(4), Bellet D(2), Sastre-Garau X(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biopathology Institut Curie 75248 Paris Cedex 05 France.
(2)Department of Biopathology Institut Curie 92210 St Cloud France. (3)Department
of Radiotherapy Institut Curie 75248 Paris Cedex 05 France. (4)Institut Curie,
PSL Research University, Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, UMR 3244, 
Sorbonne Universités Paris France. (5)Department of Biopathology Institut de
Cancérologie de Lorraine 6, Avenue de Bourgogne-CS30519, 54519
Vandoeuvre-les-Nancy France.

Specific human papillomavirus genotypes are associated with most ano-genital
carcinomas and a large subset of oro-pharyngeal carcinomas. Human papillomavirus 
DNA is thus a tumour marker that can be detected in the blood of patients for
clinical monitoring. However, data concerning circulating human papillomavirus
DNA in cervical cancer patients has provided little clinical value, due to
insufficient sensitivity of the assays used for the detection of small sized
tumours. Here we took advantage of the sensitive droplet digital PCR method to
identify circulating human papillomavirus DNA in patients with human
papillomavirus-associated carcinomas. A series of 70 serum specimens, taken at
the time of diagnosis, between 2002 and 2013, were retrospectively analyzed in
patients with human papillomavirus-16 or human papillomavirus-18-associated
carcinomas, composed of 47 cases from the uterine cervix, 15 from the anal canal 
and 8 from the oro-pharynx. As negative controls, 18 serum samples from women
with human papillomavirus-16-associated high-grade cervical intraepithelial
neoplasia were also analyzed. Serum samples were stored at -80°C (27 cases) or at
-20°C (43 cases). DNA was isolated from 200 µl of serum or plasma and droplet
digital PCR was performed using human papillomavirus-16 E7 and human
papillomavirus-18 E7 specific primers. Circulating human papillomavirus DNA was
detected in 61/70 (87%) serum samples from patients with carcinoma and in no
serum from patients with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. The positivity rate 
increased to 93% when using only serum stored at -80°C. Importantly, the two
patients with microinvasive carcinomas in this series were positive. Quantitative
evaluation showed that circulating viral DNA levels in cervical cancer patients
were related to the clinical stage and tumour size, ranging from 55 ± 85
copies/ml (stage I) to 1774 ± 3676 copies/ml (stage IV). Circulating human
papillomavirus DNA is present in patients with human papillomavirus-associated
invasive cancers even at sub-clinical stages and its level is related to tumour
dynamics. Droplet digital PCR is a promising method for circulating human
papillomavirus DNA detection and quantification. No positivity was found in
patients with human papillomavirus-associated high grade cervical intraepithelial
neoplasia.

DOI: 10.1002/cjp2.47 
PMCID: PMC5129558
PMID: 27917295 


181. Cancer Res. 2016 Dec 15;76(24):7151-7159. Epub 2016 Oct 20.

A Study of TP53 RNA Splicing Illustrates Pitfalls of RNA-seq Methodology.

Mehta S(1,)(2,)(3), Tsai P(4,)(5), Lasham A(2,)(3,)(4), Campbell H(6), Reddel
R(6), Braithwaite A(7,)(2,)(3,)(6), Print C(2,)(3,)(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand.
sunali.mehta@otago.ac.nz. (2)Maurice Wilkins Centre for Molecular Biodiscovery,
University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand. (3)Maurice Wilkins Centre for
Molecular Biodiscovery, University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand. (4)Department 
of Molecular Medicine and Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Auckland,
Auckland, New Zealand. (5)Bioinformatics Institute, University of Auckland,
Auckland, New Zealand. (6)Children's Medical Research Institute, University of
Sydney, Westmead, New South Wales, Australia. (7)Department of Pathology,
University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand.

TP53 undergoes multiple RNA-splicing events, resulting in at least nine mRNA
transcripts encoding at least 12 functionally different protein isoforms.
Antibodies specific to p53 protein isoforms have proven difficult to develop,
thus researchers must rely on the transcript information to infer isoform
abundance. In this study, we used deep RNA-seq, droplet digital PCR (ddPCR), and 
real-time quantitative reverse transcriptase PCR (RT-qPCR) from nine human cell
lines and RNA-seq data available for tumors in The Cancer Genome Atlas to analyze
TP53 splice variant expression. All three methods detected expression of the
FL/40TP53α_T1 variant in most human tumors and cell lines. However, other less
abundant variants were only detected with PCR-based methods. Using RNA-seq
simulation analysis, we determined why RNA-seq is unable to detect less abundant 
TP53 transcripts and discuss the implications of these findings for the general
interpretation of RNA-seq data. Cancer Res; 76(24); 7151-9. ©2016 AACR.

©2016 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-16-1624 
PMID: 27913434 


182. Biochemistry (Mosc). 2016 Oct;81(10):1031-1037.

Detection of Mutations in Mitochondrial DNA by Droplet Digital PCR.

Sofronova JK(1), Ilinsky YY, Orishchenko KE, Chupakhin EG, Lunev EA, Mazunin IO.

Author information: 
(1)Immanuil Kant Baltic Federal University, Institute of Chemistry and Biology,
Kaliningrad, 236038, Russia. IMazunin@kantiana.ru.

Mutations in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) may result in various pathological
processes. Detection of mutant mtDNAs is a problem for diagnostic practice that
is complicated by heteroplasmy - a phenomenon of the inferring presence of at
least two allelic variants of the mitochondrial genome. Also, the level of
heteroplasmy largely determines the profile and severity of clinical
manifestations. Here we discuss detection of mutations in heteroplasmic mtDNA
using up-to-date methods that have not yet been introduced as routine clinical
assays. These methods can be used for detecting mutations in mtDNA to verify
diagnosis of "mitochondrial disease", studying dynamics of mutant mtDNA in body
tissues of patients, as well as investigating structural features of mtDNAs.
Original data on allele-specific discrimination of m.11778G>A mutation by droplet
digital PCR are presented, which demonstrate an opportunity for simultaneous
detection and quantitative assessment of mutations in mtDNAs.

DOI: 10.1134/S0006297916100011 
PMID: 27908228  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Open Biol. 2016 Nov;6(11). pii: 160275.

Tumour-suppressor microRNAs regulate ovarian cancer cell physical properties and 
invasive behaviour.

Chan CK(1,)(2), Pan Y(3), Nyberg K(4,)(2), Marra MA(5,)(6), Lim EL(5), Jones
SJ(5,)(6,)(7), Maar D(8), Gibb EA(5), Gunaratne PH(3,)(9,)(10), Robertson AG(5), 
Rowat AC(11,)(2,)(12).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrative Biology and Physiology, University of California Los
Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA clarachan27@gmail.com. (2)Department of
Bioengineering, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Biology, University of Houston, Houston, TX,
USA. (4)Department of Integrative Biology and Physiology, University of
California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA. (5)British Columbia Cancer Agency, 
Canada's Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre, Vancouver, British Columbia,
Canada. (6)Department of Medical Genetics, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. (7)Department of Molecular Biology and
Biochemistry, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, British Columbia, Canada.
(8)Bio-Rad Laboratories, The Digital Biology Center, Pleasanton, CA, USA.
(9)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston,
TX, USA. (10)Human Genome Sequencing Center, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston,
TX, USA. (11)Department of Integrative Biology and Physiology, University of
California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA rowat@ucla.edu. (12)Jonsson
Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles,
CA, USA.

The activities of pathways that regulate malignant transformation can be
influenced by microRNAs (miRs). Recently, we showed that increased expression of 
five tumour-suppressor miRs, miR-508-3p, miR-508-5p, miR-509-3p, miR-509-5p and
miR-130b-3p, correlate with improved clinical outcomes in human ovarian cancer
patients, and that miR-509-3p attenuates invasion of ovarian cancer cell lines.
Here, we investigate the mechanism underlying this reduced invasive potential by 
assessing the impact of these five miRs on the physical properties of cells.
Human ovarian cancer cells (HEYA8, OVCAR8) that are transfected with miR mimics
representing these five miRs exhibit decreased invasion through collagen
matrices, increased cell size and reduced deformability as measured by
microfiltration and microfluidic assays. To understand the molecular basis of
altered invasion and deformability induced by these miRs, we use predicted and
validated mRNA targets that encode structural and signalling proteins that
regulate cell mechanical properties. Combined with analysis of gene transcripts
by real-time PCR and image analysis of F-actin in single cells, our results
suggest that these tumour-suppressor miRs may alter cell physical properties by
regulating the actin cytoskeleton. Our findings provide biophysical insights into
how tumour-suppressor miRs can regulate the invasive behaviour of ovarian cancer 
cells, and identify potential therapeutic targets that may be implicated in
ovarian cancer progression.

© 2016 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1098/rsob.160275 
PMCID: PMC5133448
PMID: 27906134 


184. Nucleic Acids Res. 2016 Nov 29. pii: gkw1166. [Epub ahead of print]

Methylation-sensitive enrichment of minor DNA alleles using a double-strand
DNA-specific nuclease.

Liu Y(1), Song C(1), Ladas I(1), Fitarelli-Kiehl M(1), Makrigiorgos GM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Brigham and
Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA. (2)Department of
Radiation Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA
mmakrigiorgos@partners.org.

Aberrant methylation changes, often present in a minor allelic fraction in
clinical samples such as plasma-circulating DNA (cfDNA), are potentially powerful
prognostic and predictive biomarkers in human disease including cancer. We report
on a novel, highly-multiplexed approach to facilitate analysis of clinically
useful methylation changes in minor DNA populations. Methylation Specific
Nuclease-assisted Minor-allele Enrichment (MS-NaME) employs a
double-strand-specific DNA nuclease (DSN) to remove excess DNA with normal
methylation patterns. The technique utilizes oligonucleotide-probes that direct
DSN activity to multiple targets in bisulfite-treated DNA, simultaneously.
Oligonucleotide probes targeting unmethylated sequences generate local double
stranded regions resulting to digestion of unmethylated targets, and leaving
methylated targets intact; and vice versa. Subsequent amplification of the
targeted regions results in enrichment of the targeted methylated or unmethylated
minority-epigenetic-alleles. We validate MS-NaME by demonstrating enrichment of
RARb2, ATM, MGMT and GSTP1 promoters in multiplexed MS-NaME reactions (177-plex) 
using dilutions of methylated/unmethylated DNA and in DNA from clinical lung
cancer samples and matched normal tissue. MS-NaME is a highly scalable
single-step approach performed at the genomic DNA level in solution that combines
with most downstream detection technologies including Sanger sequencing,
methylation-sensitive-high-resolution melting (MS-HRM) and
methylation-specific-Taqman-based-digital-PCR (digital Methylight) to boost
detection of low-level aberrant methylation-changes.

© The Author(s) 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic
Acids Research.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkw1166 
PMID: 27903892 


185. Plant Genome. 2016 Nov;9(3). doi: 10.3835/plantgenome2016.03.0034.

Identification and Characterization of Quantitative Trait Loci for Shattering in 
Rice Landrace Jiucaiqing from Taihu Lake Valley, China.

Cheng J, He Y, Zhan C, Yang B, Xu E, Zhang H, Wang Z.

Easy shattering reduces yield from grain loss during rice ( L.) harvest. We
characterized a nonshattering rice landrace Jiucaiqing from Taihu Lake valley in 
China. The breaking tensile strength (BTS; grams force, gf) of the grain pedicel 
was measured using a digital force gauge to evaluate the degree of shattering at 
0, 7, 14, 21, 28, and 35 d after heading (DAH). The BTS of Jiucaiqing did not
significantly decrease with increasing DAH, maintaining a level of 152.2 to 195.9
gf, while that of IR26 decreased greatly during 0 to 14 DAH and finally
stabilized at ∼100 gf. Then the chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSLs) and
near isogenic lines (NILs) of Jiucaiqing in IR26 background were developed for
quantitative trait loci (QTL) mapping. Four putative QTL (, , , and ) for
shattering were detected, and the was confirmed on chromosome 1. We further
mapped to a 98.4-kb region, which contains 14 genes. Os01g62920 was considered to
be a strong candidate for , which colocated with . Further quantitative real-time
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analyses confirmed that the QTL can significantly
decrease the expression of shattering related genes (, , , , and ) especially at 
the middle development stage at 10 and 15 cm panicle length, which causes rice
shattering decrease. The elite allele and the NIL with desirable agronomic traits
identified in this study could be useful for rice breeding.

Copyright © 2016 Crop Science Society of America.

DOI: 10.3835/plantgenome2016.03.0034 
PMID: 27902802 


186. Sci Rep. 2016 Nov 30;6:37923. doi: 10.1038/srep37923.

Digital gene expression profiling analysis of duodenum transcriptomes in SD rats 
administered ferrous sulfate or ferrous glycine chelate by gavage.

Zhuo Z(1), Fang S(1), Hu Q(1), Huang D(1), Feng J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Molecular Animal Nutrition, Ministry of Education, College
of Animal Science, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310058, P. R. China.

The absorption of different iron sources is a trending research topic. Many
studies have revealed that organic iron exhibits better bioavailability than
inorganic iron, but the concrete underlying mechanism is still unclear. In the
present study, we examined the differences in bioavailability of ferrous sulfate 
and ferrous glycinate in the intestines of SD rats using Illumina sequencing
technology. Digital gene expression analysis resulted in the generation of almost
128 million clean reads, with expression data for 17,089 unigenes. A total of 123
differentially expressed genes with a |log2(fold change)| >1 and q-value < 0.05
were identified between the FeSO4 and Fe-Gly groups. Gene Ontology functional
analysis revealed that these genes were involved in oxidoreductase activity, iron
ion binding, and heme binding. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway
analysis also showed relevant important pathways. In addition, the expression
patterns of 9 randomly selected genes were further validated by qRT-PCR, which
confirmed the digital gene expression results. Our study showed that the two iron
sources might share the same absorption mechanism, and that differences in
bioavailability between FeSO4 and Fe-Gly were not only in the absorption process 
but also during the transport and utilization process.

DOI: 10.1038/srep37923 
PMCID: PMC5128800
PMID: 27901057 


187. Leukemia. 2017 Jan 3. doi: 10.1038/leu.2016.366. [Epub ahead of print]

Circulating tumour DNA analysis demonstrates spatial mutational heterogeneity
that coincides with disease relapse in myeloma.

Mithraprabhu S(1), Khong T(1), Ramachandran M(1), Chow A(2), Klarica D(3), Mai
L(4), Walsh S(4), Broemeling D(4), Marziali A(4), Wiggin M(4), Hocking J(1,)(3), 
Kalff A(1,)(3), Durie B(5), Spencer A(1,)(3,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Myeloma Research Group, Australian Centre for Blood Diseases, Alfred
Hospital/Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia. (2)Adelaide Cancer Centre,
Adelaide, SA, Australia. (3)Malignant Hematology and Stem Cell Transplantation,
Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, VIC, Australia. (4)Boreal Genomics, Vancouver, BC,
Canada. (5)Cedars-Sinai Comprehensive Cancer Center, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(6)Department of Clinical Hematology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC, Australia.

Mutational characterisation in multiple myeloma (MM) currently relies on bone
marrow (BM) biopsy, which fails to capture the putative spatial and genetic
heterogeneity of this multifocal disease. Analysis of plasma (PL)-derived
circulating free tumour DNA (ctDNA) as an adjunct to BM biopsy, for mutational
characterisation and tracking disease progression, was evaluated. Paired BM MM
cell DNA and ctDNA from 33 relapsed/refractory (RR) and 15 newly diagnosed (ND)
patients were analysed for KRAS, NRAS, BRAF and TP53 mutations using the OnTarget
Mutation Detection (OMD) platform. OMD detected 128 mutations (PL=31, BM=59,
both=38) indicating the presence of PL mutations (54%). A higher frequency of
PL-only mutations was detected in RR patients than ND (27.2% vs 6.6%,
respectively), authenticating the existence of spatial and genetic heterogeneity 
in advanced disease. Activating RAS mutations were more highly prevalent than
previously described with 69% harboring at least one RAS mutation. Sequential
ctDNA quantitation with droplet digital PCR through longitudinal PL tracking of
specific clones in seven patients demonstrated changes in fractional abundance of
certain clones reflective of the disease status. We conclude that ctDNA analysis 
as an adjunct to BM biopsy represents a noninvasive and holistic strategy for
improved mutational characterisation and therapeutic monitoring of MM.Leukemia
advance online publication, 3 January 2017; doi:10.1038/leu.2016.366.

DOI: 10.1038/leu.2016.366 
PMID: 27899805 


188. AIDS. 2017 Jan 2;31(1):5-14.

Reactivation of simian immunodeficiency virus reservoirs in the brain of virally 
suppressed macaques.

Gama L(1), Abreu CM, Shirk EN, Price SL, Li M, Laird GM, Pate KA, Wietgrefe SW,
O'Connor SL, Pianowski L, Haase AT, Van Lint C, Siliciano RF, Clements JE;
LRA-SIV Study Group.

Collaborators: Queen SE, Bullock BT, Croteau J, Pianowski Filho LF, Gellerup D,
Beck SE, Mangus LM, Adams RJ, Perkey K, Rouzioux C, de Wit S, Kula A, Darcis G,
Zink C, Mankowski JL.

Author information: 
(1)aDepartment of Molecular and Comparative Pathobiology, Johns Hopkins School of
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA bDepartamento de Genética, Universidade
Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil cDepartment of Medicine, Johns 
Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland dDepartment of Microbiology and
Immunology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis eDepartment of Pathology and
Laboratory Medicine, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine, Madison, USA
fKyolab, Valinhos, São Paulo, Brazil gService of Molecular Virology, Department
of Molecular Biology, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Gosselies, Belgium.

OBJECTIVE: Resting CD4 T cells have been recognized as the major cell reservoir
of latent HIV-1 during antiretroviral therapy (ART). Using an simian
immunodeficiency virus (SIV)/macaque model for AIDS and HIV-related
neurocognitive disorders we assessed the contribution of the brain to viral
latency and reactivation.
DESIGN: Pigtailed macaques were dual inoculated with SIVDeltaB670 and SIV17E-Fr
and treated with an efficacious central nervous system-penetrant ART. After 500
days of viral suppression animals were treated with two cycles of latency
reversing agents and increases in viral transcripts were examined.
METHODS: Longitudinal plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) viral loads were
analyzed by quantitative and digital droplet PCR. After necropsy, viral
transcripts in organs were analyzed by PCR, in-situ hybridization, and
phylogenetic genotyping based on env V1 loop sequences. Markers for neuronal
damage and CSF activation were measured by ELISA.
RESULTS: Increases in activation markers and plasma and CSF viral loads were
observed in one animal treated with latency reversing agents, despite ongoing
ART. SIV transcripts were identified in occipital cortex macrophages by in-situ
hybridization and CD68 staining. The most abundant SIV genotype in CSF was unique
and expanded independent from viruses found in the periphery.
CONCLUSION: The central nervous system harbors latent SIV genomes after long-term
viral suppression by ART, indicating that the brain represents a potential viral 
reservoir and should be seriously considered during AIDS cure strategies.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0000000000001267 
PMCID: PMC5131686
PMID: 27898590 


189. J Mol Cell Cardiol. 2017 Jan;102:74-82. doi: 10.1016/j.yjmcc.2016.10.013. Epub
2016 Nov 26.

Transcriptional regulation of the sodium channel gene (SCN5A) by GATA4 in human
heart.

Tarradas A(1), Pinsach-Abuin ML(2), Mackintosh C(3), Llorà-Batlle O(1),
Pérez-Serra A(1), Batlle M(4), Pérez-Villa F(4), Zimmer T(5), Garcia-Bassets
I(3), Brugada R(6), Beltran-Alvarez P(7), Pagans S(8).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Sciences Department, School of Medicine, University of Girona, 17071
Girona, Spain; Institut d'Investigació Biomèdica de Girona, 17190 Salt, Spain.
(2)Medical Sciences Department, School of Medicine, University of Girona, 17071
Girona, Spain; Institut d'Investigació Biomèdica de Girona, 17190 Salt, Spain;
School of Medicine, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093-0648, 
USA. (3)School of Medicine, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA
92093-0648, USA. (4)Thorax Institute, Cardiology Department, Hospital Clínic,
University of Barcelona, Institute of Biomedical Research August Pi i Sunyer,
08036 Barcelona, Spain. (5)Institute for Physiology II, University Hospital,
07743 Jena, Germany. (6)Medical Sciences Department, School of Medicine,
University of Girona, 17071 Girona, Spain; Institut d'Investigació Biomèdica de
Girona, 17190 Salt, Spain; Hospital Universitari Dr. Josep Trueta, 17001 Girona, 
Spain. (7)Medical Sciences Department, School of Medicine, University of Girona, 
17071 Girona, Spain; Institut d'Investigació Biomèdica de Girona, 17190 Salt,
Spain; School of Biological, Biomedical, and Environmental Sciences, University
of Hull, HU6 7RX, Hull, UK. Electronic address: p.beltran-alvarez@hull.ac.uk.
(8)Medical Sciences Department, School of Medicine, University of Girona, 17071
Girona, Spain; Institut d'Investigació Biomèdica de Girona, 17190 Salt, Spain.
Electronic address: sara.pagans@udg.edu.

Aberrant expression of the sodium channel gene (SCN5A) has been proposed to
disrupt cardiac action potential and cause human cardiac arrhythmias, but the
mechanisms of SCN5A gene regulation and dysregulation still remain largely
unexplored. To gain insight into the transcriptional regulatory networks of
SCN5A, we surveyed the promoter and first intronic regions of the SCN5A gene,
predicting the presence of several binding sites for GATA transcription factors
(TFs). Consistent with this prediction, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and 
sequential ChIP (Re-ChIP) assays show co-occupancy of cardiac GATA TFs GATA4 and 
GATA5 on promoter and intron 1 SCN5A regions in fresh-frozen human left ventricle
samples. Gene reporter experiments show GATA4 and GATA5 synergism in the
activation of the SCN5A promoter, and its dependence on predicted GATA binding
sites. GATA4 and GATA6 mRNAs are robustly expressed in fresh-frozen human left
ventricle samples as measured by highly sensitive droplet digital PCR (ddPCR).
GATA5 mRNA is marginally but still clearly detected in the same samples.
Importantly, GATA4 mRNA levels are strongly and positively correlated with SCN5A 
transcript levels in the human heart. Together, our findings uncover a novel
mechanism of GATA TFs in the regulation of the SCN5A gene in human heart tissue. 
Our studies suggest that GATA5 but especially GATA4 are main contributors to
SCN5A gene expression, thus providing a new paradigm of SCN5A expression
regulation that may shed new light into the understanding of cardiac disease.

Copyright Â© 2017 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yjmcc.2016.10.013 
PMID: 27894866 


190. Sci Rep. 2016 Nov 28;6:37392. doi: 10.1038/srep37392.

Vertical Magnetic Separation of Circulating Tumor Cells for Somatic
Genomic-Alteration Analysis in Lung Cancer Patients.

Yoo CE(1,)(2), Park JM(3), Moon HS(1,)(2), Joung JG(2), Son DS(1,)(2), Jeon
HJ(2), Kim YJ(1,)(2), Han KY(1,)(2), Sun JM(4), Park K(4), Park D(1,)(2), Park
WY(2,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Samsung Biomedical Research Institute (SBRI), Samsung Advanced Institute of
Technology (SAIT), Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., Seoul 06351, Korea. (2)Samsung
Genome Institute (SGI), Samsung Medical Center (SMC), Seoul 06351, Korea.
(3)Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., Suwon, 16677, Korea. (4)Department of Medicine, 
Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Suwon 16416, Korea. (5)Department of 
Molecular Cell Biology, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Suwon 16419, 
Korea.

Efficient isolation and genetic analysis of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) from
cancer patients' blood is a critical step for clinical applications using CTCs.
Here, we report a novel CTC-isolation method and subsequent genetic analysis.
CTCs from the blood were complexed with magnetic beads coated with antibodies
against the epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM) and separated vertically on
a density-gradient medium in a modified well-plate. The recovery rate of model
CTCs was reasonable and the cell purity was enhanced dramatically when compared
to those parameters obtained using a conventional magnetic isolation method. CTCs
were recovered from an increased number of patient samples using our magnetic
system vs. the FDA-approved CellSearch system (100% vs. 33%, respectively). In 8 
of 13 cases, targeted deep sequencing analysis of CTCs revealed private point
mutations present in CTCs but not in matched tumor samples and white blood cells 
(WBCs), which was also validated by droplet digital PCR. Copy-number alterations 
in CTCs were also observed in the corresponding tumor tissues for some patients. 
In this report, we showed that CTCs isolated by the EpCAM-based method had
complex and diverse genetic features that were similar to those of tumor samples 
in some, but not all, cases.

DOI: 10.1038/srep37392 
PMCID: PMC5124952
PMID: 27892470 


191. Biosens Bioelectron. 2017 Apr 15;90:174-186. doi: 10.1016/j.bios.2016.11.045.
Epub 2016 Nov 19.

Integration of isothermal amplification methods in microfluidic devices: Recent
advances.

Giuffrida MC(1), Spoto G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Consorzio Interuniversitario "Istituto Nazionale Biostrutture e Biosistemi",
c/o Dipartimento di Scienze Chimiche, Università di Catania, Viale Andrea Doria
6, Catania, Italy. (2)Consorzio Interuniversitario "Istituto Nazionale
Biostrutture e Biosistemi", c/o Dipartimento di Scienze Chimiche, Università di
Catania, Viale Andrea Doria 6, Catania, Italy; Dipartimento di Scienze Chimiche, 
Università di Catania, Viale Andrea Doria 6, I-95125 Catania, Italy.

The integration of nucleic acids detection assays in microfluidic devices
represents a highly promising approach for the development of convenient, cheap
and efficient diagnostic tools for clinical, food safety and environmental
monitoring applications. Such tools are expected to operate at the point-of-care 
and in resource-limited settings. The amplification of the target nucleic acid
sequence represents a key step for the development of sensitive detection
protocols. The integration in microfluidic devices of the most popular technology
for nucleic acids amplifications, polymerase chain reaction (PCR), is
significantly limited by the thermal cycling needed to obtain the target sequence
amplification. This review provides an overview of recent advances in integration
of isothermal amplification methods in microfluidic devices. Isothermal methods, 
that operate at constant temperature, have emerged as promising alternative to
PCR and greatly simplify the implementation of amplification methods in
point-of-care diagnostic devices and devices to be used in resource-limited
settings. Possibilities offered by isothermal methods for digital droplet
amplification are discussed.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bios.2016.11.045 
PMID: 27888686  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Front Plant Sci. 2016 Nov 9;7:1695. eCollection 2016.

Transcriptome Analysis and Identification of Genes Associated with Floral
Transition and Flower Development in Sugar Apple (Annona squamosa L.).

Liu K(1), Feng S(1), Pan Y(1), Zhong J(1), Chen Y(1), Yuan C(1), Li H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Life Science and Technology School, Lingnan Normal University Zhanjiang,
China.

Sugar apple (Annona squamosa L.) is a semi-deciduous subtropical tree that
progressively sheds its leaves in the spring. However, little information is
available on the mechanism involved in flower developmental pattern. To gain a
global perspective on the floral transition and flower development of sugar
apple, cDNA libraries were prepared independently from inflorescent meristem and 
three flowering stages. Illumina sequencing generated 107,197,488 high quality
reads that were assembled into 71,948 unigenes, with an average sequence length
of 825.40 bp. Among the unigenes, various transcription factor families involved 
in floral transition and flower development were elucidated. Furthermore, a Kyoto
Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analysis revealed that
unigenes exhibiting differential expressions were involved in various
phytohormone signal transduction events and circadian rhythms. In addition, 147
unigenes exhibiting sequence similarities to known flowering-related genes from
other plants were differentially expressed during flower development. The
expression patterns of 20 selected genes were validated using quantitative-PCR.
The expression data presented in our study is the most comprehensive dataset
available for sugar apple so far and will serve as a resource for investigating
the genetics of the flowering process in sugar apple and other Annona species.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2016.01695 
PMCID: PMC5101194
PMID: 27881993 


193. J Clin Microbiol. 2017 Feb;55(2):442-449. doi: 10.1128/JCM.01970-16. Epub 2016
Nov 23.

Superiority of Digital Reverse Transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) over Real-Time RT-PCR
for Quantitation of Highly Divergent Human Rhinoviruses.

Sedlak RH(1), Nguyen T(1), Palileo I(1), Jerome KR(1,)(2), Kuypers J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington, USA. (2)Vaccine and Infectious Disease Division, Fred Hutchinson
Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington, USA. (3)Department of Laboratory
Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA kuypers@uw.edu.

Human rhinoviruses (HRV) comprise 3 species representing more than 150 genotypes.
As an important human respiratory pathogen, molecular detection is an
indispensable tool for diagnosis and surveillance. However, the sequence
diversity of HRV genotypes poses challenges for developing robust molecular
methods that detect all genotypes with equal efficiencies. This study compares
the accuracies of reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) and reverse
transcription-digital PCR (RT-dPCR) for quantifying HRV RNA using
genotype-specific primers and probes and a consensus primer/probe set targeting
the 5' noncoding region of HRV. When using consensus primers and probes for the
quantification of HRV, RT-dPCR outperformed RT-qPCR by consistently and
accurately quantifying HRV RNAs across more genotype groups, despite the presence
of up to 2 target-sequence mismatches within the primer or probe binding region. 
Because it does not rely on amplification efficiency, which can be affected by
sequence mismatches in primer/probe binding regions, RT-dPCR may be the optimal
molecular method for future HRV quantification studies and for quantitating other
viruses with high sequence diversity.

Copyright © 2017 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.01970-16 
PMCID: PMC5277513 [Available on 2017-08-01]
PMID: 27881615 


194. J Strength Cond Res. 2016 Dec;30(12):3531-3538.

Resistance Training Alters the Proportion of Skeletal Muscle Fibers but Not Brain
Neurotrophic Factors in Young Adult Rats.

Antonio-Santos J(1), Ferreira DJ, Gomes Costa GL, Matos RJ, Toscano AE,
Manhães-de-Castro R, Leandro CG.

Author information: 
(1)1Department of Physical Education and Sport Science, Academic Center of
Vitoria de Santo Antao, Federal University of Pernambuco, Recife,
Brazil;2Department of Nursing, Academic Center of Vitoria de Santo Antao, Federal
University of Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil; and3Department of Nutrition, Federal
University of Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.

Antonio-Santos, J, Ferreira, DJS, Gomes Costa, GL, Matos, RJB, Toscano, AE,
Manhães-de-Castro, R, and Leandro, CG. Resistance training alters the proportion 
of skeletal muscle fibers but not brain neurotrophic factors in young adult rats.
J Strength Cond Res 30(12): 3531-3538, 2016-Resistance training (RT) is related
to improved muscular strength and power output. Different programs of RT for rats
have been developed, but peripheral and central response has not been evaluated
directly in the same animal. To test the hypothesis that RT induces central and
peripheral adaptations, this study evaluated the effects of a RT on the
performance of a weekly maximum overload test, fiber-type typology, and brain
neurotrophic factors in young adult rats. Thirty-one male Wistar rats (65 ± 5
days) were divided in 2 groups: nontrained (NT, n = 13) and trained (T, n = 18). 
Trained group was submitted to a program of RT ladder climbing, gradually added
mass, 5 days per week during 8 weeks at 80% of individual maximum overload. This 
test was weekly performed to adjust the individual load throughout the weeks for 
both groups. After 48 hours from the last session of exercise, soleus and
extensor digital longus (EDL) muscles were removed for myofibrillar ATPase
staining analysis. Spinal cord, motor cortex, and cerebellum were removed for
RT-PCR analysis of BDNF and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) gene expression.
In EDL muscle, T animals showed an increase in the proportion of type IIb fibers 
and a reduction of type IIa fibers. Insulin-like growth factor-1 gene expression 
was reduced in the cerebellum of T animals (NT: 1.025 ± 0.12; T: 0.57 ± 0.11).
Our data showed that 8 weeks of RT were enough to increase maximum overload
capacity and the proportion of glycolytic muscle fibers, but there were no
associations with the expression of growth neurotrophic factors.

DOI: 10.1519/JSC.0000000000001449 
PMCID: PMC5145253
PMID: 27870699  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Emerg Infect Dis. 2016 Dec;22(12):2189-2191. doi: 10.3201/eid2212.160841.

Digital PCR for Quantifying Norovirus in Oysters Implicated in Outbreaks, France.

Polo D, Schaeffer J, Fournet N, Le Saux JC, Parnaudeau S, McLeod C, Le Guyader
FS.

Using samples from oysters clearly implicated in human disease, we quantified
norovirus levels by using digital PCR. Concentrations varied from 43 to 1,170 RNA
copies/oyster. The analysis of frozen samples from the production area showed the
presence of norovirus 2 weeks before consumption.

DOI: 10.3201/eid2212.160841 
PMCID: PMC5189157
PMID: 27869597 


196. Exp Toxicol Pathol. 2017 Jan;69(1):33-43. doi: 10.1016/j.etp.2016.11.001. Epub
2016 Nov 17.

MicroRNA biomarkers of pancreatic injury in a canine model.

Rouse R(1), Rosenzweig B(2), Shea K(2), Knapton A(2), Stewart S(2), Xu L(2),
Chockalingam A(2), Zadrozny L(2), Thompson K(2).

Author information: 
(1)U. S. Food and Drug Administration, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research,
Office of Translational Science, Office of Clinical Pharmacology, Division of
Applied Regulatory Science, HFD-910, White Oak Federal Research Center, 10903 New
Hampshire Ave, Silver Spring, MD 20993, USA. Electronic address:
rodney.rouse@fda.hhs.gov. (2)U. S. Food and Drug Administration, Center for Drug 
Evaluation and Research, Office of Translational Science, Office of Clinical
Pharmacology, Division of Applied Regulatory Science, HFD-910, White Oak Federal 
Research Center, 10903 New Hampshire Ave, Silver Spring, MD 20993, USA.

Pancreas-enriched microRNAs have been experimentally investigated in rodents as
candidate serum biomarkers of pancreatic injury with several different acute
pancreatic injury models. In the present study, temporal and magnitude responses 
of exocrine pancreas-enriched miR-216a, miR-216b, and miR-217 and
endocrine-enriched miR-375 and miR-148a were measured by droplet digital PCR in
serum in a caerulein model of pancreatic injury in the dog. All 5 microRNAs
followed a similar time course that mirrored the responses of the conventional
serum pancreatic injury biomarkers, amylase and lipase. Detection was improved
through the use of assays designed against microRNA isomers (isomirs) identified 
by sequencing. Serum biomarker increases were concordant with histopathology
defined acinar cell injury. Minimal islet cell changes were noted. The
pancreas-enriched microRNAs demonstrated similar or greater sensitivity, a larger
range of response, and a higher correlation to acinar cell injury compared to
amylase and lipase. Our results further support the translational potential of
pancreas-enriched microRNAs as sensitive biomarkers of acinar cell injury with
evidence from an additional non-clinical model system.

Published by Elsevier GmbH.

DOI: 10.1016/j.etp.2016.11.001 
PMID: 27866884  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Zhongguo Fei Ai Za Zhi. 2016 Nov 20;19(11):766-772.

[Research Advancement on EGFR Mutation Detection of Cell-free DNA and Tumor Cell 
in Peripheral Blood of Patients with Non-small Cell Lung Cancer].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang Y(1), Xu Y(1), Wang M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Peking Union Medical College Hospital,
Peking Union Medical College,  Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing
100730, China.

Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most common type of lung cancer.
Epideral growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) are the
most important treatments currently for advanced NSCLC patients harboring
activating EGFR gene mutations, and achieve significant clinical efficacy. T790M 
mutation occurs in half of NSCLC patents with acquired EGFR-TKI resistance.
Screening for EGFR gene mutations in histological and/or circulating tumor cell
or DNA samples of NSCLC patients can identify patients who would have a response 
to EGFR-TKIs or acquire resistance during the treatment. Quantitative analysis of
plasma EGFR mutation is of great importance not only in early diagnosis of
tumors, but also in curative effect evaluation and for follow-up. However, a
strict requirement is proposed on the detection technique because of low DNA
content and the fragmentation of the genes. To date, many methods have been
applied to detect cfDNA EGFR mutations, including sequencing, real-time PCR
(RT-PCR), amplification refractory mutation system (ARMS), mutant-enriched PCR
(ME-PCR), denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography (DHPLC), digital PCR,
and droplet digital PCR (ddPCR). However, of all the methods above, ddPCR has the
highest sensitivity, allows high throughput operation. In conclusion, the ddPCR
has a lot of future promise in clinical gene diagnosis.

Publisher: 非小细胞肺癌（non-small cell lung cancer, NSCLC）是肺癌中最常见的类型。表皮生长因子受体（epidermal
growth factor receptor, EGFR）酪氨酸激酶受体抑制剂（tyrosine kinases inhibitors,
TKIs）是目前最重要的靶向治疗药物，对于有EGFR敏感突变的NSCLC，采用EGFR-TKIs治疗能取得明显的临床疗效；T790M突变是最常见的EGFR-TKI
s耐药机制，通过对外周血进行EGFR基因突变检测，可以筛选出EGFR-TKIs治疗有效或治疗过程中对其产生耐药的患者。其定量分析不仅在肿瘤的早期诊断中具有重要意义
，而且是疗效评价及随访的重要生物学指标。目前，用于检测外周血EGFR突变的方法有很多，其中以在数字PCR基础上建立起来的ddPCR灵敏度最高，实现了对样本的高通量
检测，定量程度较其他方法更为精确，在临床基因诊断中具有广阔的应用前景。.
DOI: 10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2016.11.08 
PMID: 27866520  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. J Mol Diagn. 2017 Jan;19(1):162-168. doi: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2016.09.009. Epub 2016
Nov 17.

A Comparison of Cell-Free DNA Isolation Kits: Isolation and Quantification of
Cell-Free DNA in Plasma.

Sorber L(1), Zwaenepoel K(1), Deschoolmeester V(1), Roeyen G(2), Lardon F(3),
Rolfo C(4), Pauwels P(5).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Oncological Research, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences,
University of Antwerp, Wilrijk, Belgium; Department of Pathology, Antwerp
University Hospital, Edegem, Belgium. (2)Department of Hepatobiliary
Transplantation and Endocrine Surgery, Antwerp University Hospital, Edegem,
Belgium. (3)Center for Oncological Research, Faculty of Medicine and Health
Sciences, University of Antwerp, Wilrijk, Belgium. (4)Center for Oncological
Research, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, University of Antwerp,
Wilrijk, Belgium; Department of Oncology and Phase 1-Early Clinical Trials,
Antwerp University Hospital, Edegem, Belgium. (5)Center for Oncological Research,
Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, University of Antwerp, Wilrijk, Belgium;
Department of Pathology, Antwerp University Hospital, Edegem, Belgium. Electronic
address: laure.sorber@uantwerpen.be.

The analysis of cell-free DNA (cfDNA) as a sensitive biomarker for cancer
diagnosis and monitoring has resulted in a need for efficient and standardized
cfDNA isolation. In this study, we compared the isolation efficiency of the
QIAamp circulating nucleic acid kit (QIA) with four other cfDNA isolation kits:
the PME free-circulating DNA Extraction Kit (PME), the Maxwell RSC ccfDNA Plasma 
Kit (RSC), the EpiQuick Circulating Cell-Free DNA Isolation Kit (EQ), and two
consecutive versions of the NEXTprep-Mag cfDNA Isolation Kit (NpMV1/2). cfDNA was
isolated from 10 plasma samples, of which five contained KRAS mutated cell-free
tumor DNA (ctDNA). Digital droplet PCR was used to quantify the total cfDNA
concentration as well as the KRAS mutated ctDNA fraction. cfDNA integrity was
assessed with real-time quantitative PCR. The QIA and the RSC kits displayed
similar isolation efficiencies of both KRAS mutated ctDNA and nonmutated cfDNA,
whereas the yield generated by the PME and NpMV2 kits was significantly lower.
Real-time quantitative PCR indicated the presence of digital droplet PCR
inhibiting agents in the eluates of the NpMV1 and EQ kits. To conclude, this
study presents two highly efficient isolation kits for cfDNA isolation, of which 
the RSC kit has the advantage of a fully automated protocol over the
labor-intensive QIA kit.

Copyright © 2017 American Society for Investigative Pathology and the Association
for Molecular Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2016.09.009 
PMID: 27865784 


199. Fertil Steril. 2017 Jan;107(1):220-228.e5. doi: 10.1016/j.fertnstert.2016.10.015.
Epub 2016 Nov 16.

Characterizing nuclear and mitochondrial DNA in spent embryo culture media:
genetic contamination identified.

Hammond ER(1), McGillivray BC(1), Wicker SM(1), Peek JC(2), Shelling AN(1), Stone
P(1), Chamley LW(1), Cree LM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Faculty of Medical and Health
Sciences, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand. (2)Fertility Associates,
Auckland, New Zealand. (3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Faculty of
Medical and Health Sciences, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand;
Fertility Associates, Auckland, New Zealand. Electronic address:
l.cree@auckland.ac.nz.

OBJECTIVE: To characterize nuclear and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) in spent culture
media from normally developing blastocysts to determine whether it could be used 
for noninvasive genetic assessment.
DESIGN: Prospective embryo cohort study.
SETTING: Academic center and private in vitro fertilization (IVF) clinic.
PATIENT(S): Seventy patients undergoing intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI)
and 227 blastocysts.
INTERVENTION(S): Culture media assessment, artificial blastocoele fluid collapse 
and DNA analysis using digital polymerase chain reaction (dPCR), long-range PCR, 
quantitative PCR (qPCR), and DNA fingerprinting.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Presence of nuclear and mtDNA in three different
commercial culture media from Vitrolife and Irvine Scientific, spent embryo media
assessment at the cleavage and blastocyst stages of development, and analysis of 
the internal media controls for each patient that had been exposed to identical
conditions as embryo media but did not come into contact with embryos.
RESULT(S): Higher levels of nuclear and mtDNA were observed in the culture media 
that had been exposed to embryos compared with the internal media controls.
Nuclear DNA (∼4 copies) and mtDNA (∼600 copies) could be detected in spent media,
and the levels increased at the blastocyst stage. No increase in DNA was detected
after artificial blastocoele fluid collapse. Mixed sex chromosome DNA was
detected. This originated from contamination in the culture media and from
maternal (cumulus) cells. Due to the limited amount of template, the presence of 
embryonic nuclear DNA could not be confirmed by DNA fingerprinting analysis.
CONCLUSION(S): Currently DNA from culture media cannot be used for genetic
assessment because embryo-associated structures release DNA into the culture
medium and the DNA is of mixed origin.

Copyright © 2016 American Society for Reproductive Medicine. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fertnstert.2016.10.015 
PMID: 27865449 


200. Oncotarget. 2016 Dec 20;7(51):85430-85436. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.13397.

Quantification of tumor-derived cell free DNA(cfDNA) by digital PCR (DigPCR) in
cerebrospinal fluid of patients with BRAFV600 mutated malignancies.

Momtaz P(1), Pentsova E(1), Abdel-Wahab O(1), Diamond E(1), Hyman D(1), Merghoub 
T(1), You D(1), Gasmi B(1), Viale A(1), Chapman PB(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, USA.
(2)Department of Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, USA.

Tumor-derived cell free DNA (cfDNA) can be detected in plasma. We hypothesized
that mutated BRAF V600 cfDNA could be quantified in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
of patients with central nervous system (CNS) metastases. We collected CSF from
patients with BRAF V600E or K-mutated melanoma (N=8) or BRAF V600E mutated
Erdheim-Chester Disease (ECD) (N=3) with suspected central nervous system (CNS)
involvement on the basis of neurological symptoms (10/11), MRI imaging (8/11), or
both. Tumor-derived cfDNA was quantified by digital PCR in the CSF of 6/11
patients (range from 0.15-10.56 copies/μL). Conventional cytology was negative in
all patients except in the two patients with markedly elevated levels of
tumor-derived cfDNA. In 2 patients with serial measurements, CSF tumor-derived
cfDNA levels reflected response to treatment or progressive disease. CSF
tumor-derived cfDNA has the potential to serve as a diagnostic tool that
complements MRI and may be more sensitive than conventional cytology.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.13397 
PMID: 27863426 


201. PLoS One. 2016 Nov 18;11(11):e0166615. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0166615.
eCollection 2016.

A Segmental Copy Number Loss of the SFMBT1 Gene Is a Genetic Risk for
Shunt-Responsive, Idiopathic Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus (iNPH): A Case-Control
Study.

Sato H(1,)(2), Takahashi Y(1), Kimihira L(1), Iseki C(1), Kato H(1), Suzuki Y(1),
Igari R(1), Sato H(1), Koyama S(1), Arawaka S(1), Kawanami T(1), Miyajima M(3),
Samejima N(4), Sato S(5), Kameda M(6), Yamada S(7), Kita D(8), Kaijima M(9), Date
I(6), Sonoda Y(5), Kayama T(5), Kuwana N(4), Arai H(3), Kato T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Hematology, Metabolism, Endocrinology and
Diabetology, Yamagata University Faculty of Medicine, Yamagata, Japan. (2)Genomic
Information Analysis Unit, Department of Genomic Cohort Research, Yamagata
University Faculty of Medicine, Yamagata, Japan. (3)Department of Neurosurgery,
Graduate School of Medicine, Juntendo University, Tokyo, Japan. (4)Department of 
Neurosurgery, Tokyo Kyosai Hospital, Tokyo, Japan. (5)Department of Neurosurgery,
Yamagata University Faculty of Medicine, Yamagata, Japan. (6)Department of
Neurological Surgery, Okayama University Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry
and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama, Japan. (7)Department of Neurosurgery,
Toshiba Rinkan Hospital, Sagamihara, Japan. (8)Department of Neurosurgery, Noto
General Hospital, Nanao, Japan. (9)Department of Neurosurgery, Megumino Hospital,
Eniwa, Japan.

Little is known about genetic risk factors for idiopathic normal pressure
hydrocephalus (iNPH). We examined whether a copy number loss in intron 2 of the
SFMBT1 gene could be a genetic risk for shunt-responsive, definite iNPH.
Quantitative and digital PCR analyses revealed that 26.0% of shunt-responsive
definite iNPH patients (n = 50) had such a genetic change, as compared with 4.2% 
of the healthy elderly (n = 191) (OR = 7.94, 95%CI: 2.82-23.79, p = 1.8 x 10-5)
and 6.3% of patients with Parkinson's disease (n = 32) (OR = 5.18, 95%CI:
1.1-50.8, p = 0.038). The present study demonstrates that a copy number loss
within intron 2 of the SFMBT1 gene may be a genetic risk factor for
shunt-responsive definite iNPH.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0166615 
PMCID: PMC5115754
PMID: 27861535 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


202. PLoS One. 2016 Nov 18;11(11):e0165995. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0165995.
eCollection 2016.

DNA Barcoding for Efficient Species- and Pathovar-Level Identification of the
Quarantine Plant Pathogen Xanthomonas.

Tian Q(1,)(2), Zhao W(2), Lu S(3), Zhu S(2), Li S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Plant Protection, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences,
Beijing, China. (2)Institute of Plant Quarantine Research, Chinese Academy of
Inspection and Quarantine, Beijing, China. (3)College of Plant Protection,
Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing, China.

Genus Xanthomonas comprises many economically important plant pathogens that
affect a wide range of hosts. Indeed, fourteen Xanthomonas species/pathovars have
been regarded as official quarantine bacteria for imports in China. To date,
however, a rapid and accurate method capable of identifying all of the quarantine
species/pathovars has yet to be developed. In this study, we therefore evaluated 
the capacity of DNA barcoding as a digital identification method for
discriminating quarantine species/pathovars of Xanthomonas. For these analyses,
327 isolates, representing 45 Xanthomonas species/pathovars, as well as five
additional species/pathovars from GenBank (50 species/pathovars total), were
utilized to test the efficacy of four DNA barcode candidate genes (16S rRNA gene,
cpn60, gyrB, and avrBs2). Of these candidate genes, cpn60 displayed the highest
rate of PCR amplification and sequencing success. The tree-building
(Neighbor-joining), 'best close match', and barcode gap methods were subsequently
employed to assess the species- and pathovar-level resolution of each gene.
Notably, all isolates of each quarantine species/pathovars formed a monophyletic 
group in the neighbor-joining tree constructed using the cpn60 sequences.
Moreover, cpn60 also demonstrated the most satisfactory results in both barcoding
gap analysis and the 'best close match' test. Thus, compared with the other
markers tested, cpn60 proved to be a powerful DNA barcode, providing a reliable
and effective means for the species- and pathovar-level identification of the
quarantine plant pathogen Xanthomonas.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0165995 
PMCID: PMC5115671
PMID: 27861494 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


203. Oncotarget. 2016 Nov 16. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.13401. [Epub ahead of print]

Digital PCR identifies changes in CDH1 (E-cadherin) transcription pattern in
intestinal-type gastric cancer.

Abou Khouzam R(1), Molinari C(2), Salvi S(2), Marabelli M(1), Molinaro V(1),
Orioli D(3), Saragoni L(4), Morgagni P(5), Calistri D(2), Ranzani GN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology and Biotechnology, University of Pavia, Pavia, Italy.
(2)Biosciences Laboratory, Istituto Scientifico Romagnolo per lo Studio e la Cura
dei Tumori (IRST) IRCCS, Meldola, Italy. (3)Institute of Molecular Genetics,
Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, Pavia, Italy. (4)Pathology Unit,
Morgagni-Pierantoni Hospital, Forlì, Italy. (5)Department of General Surgery,
Morgagni-Pierantoni Hospital, Forlì, Italy.

E-cadherin is a cell-cell adhesion protein encoded by CDH1 tumor-suppressor gene.
CDH1 inactivating mutations, leading to loss of protein expression, are common in
gastric cancer of the diffuse histotype, while alternative mechanisms modulating 
E-cadherin expression characterize the more common intestinal histotype. These
mechanisms are still poorly understood. CDH1 intron 2 has recently emerged as a
cis-modulator of E-cadherin expression, encoding non-canonical transcripts. One
in particular, CDH1a, proved to be expressed in gastric cancer cell lines, while 
being absent in the normal stomach. For the first time, we evaluated by digital
PCR the expression of CDH1 and CDH1a transcripts in cancer and normal tissue
samples from 32 patients with intestinal-type gastric cancer. We found a
significant decrease in CDH1 expression in tumors compared to normal counterparts
(P = 0.001), which was especially evident in 76% of cases. CDH1a was detected at 
extremely low levels in 47% of tumors, but not in normal mucosa. A trend was
observed of having less CDH1 in tumors expressing CDH1atranscript. The majority
of tumors with both a decrease in CDH1 and presence of CDH1a also showed a
decrease in miR-101 expression levels. On the whole, the decrease of CDH1
transcript, corresponding to the canonical protein, and the presence of CDH1a,
corresponding to an alternative isoform, are likely to perturb
E-cadherin-mediated signaling and cell-cell adhesion, thus contributing to
intestinal-type gastric carcinogenesis.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.13401 
PMID: 27861150 


204. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2016 Dec;100(24):10597-10608. Epub 2016 Nov 14.

Efficiency and sensitivity of the digital droplet PCR for the quantification of
antibiotic resistance genes in soils and organic residues.

Cavé L(1), Brothier E(1), Abrouk D(2), Bouda PS(3), Hien E(3), Nazaret S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Research Group on 'Environmental multi-resistance and efflux pump ', CNRS,
Ecole Nationale Vétérinaire de Lyon, and Université Lyon 1, UMR 5557 Ecologie
Microbienne, Université de Lyon, 43 boulevard du 11 novembre 1918, 69622,
Villeurbanne Cedex, France. (2)Université de Lyon, France; 'ibio platform', CNRS,
Ecole Nationale Vétérinaire de Lyon, and Université Lyon 1, UMR 5557 Ecologie
Microbienne, Université de Lyon, 43 boulevard du 11 novembre 1918, 69622,
Villeurbanne Cedex, France. (3)LMI IESOL, UMR Eco&Sols, IRD-Université de
Ouagadougou, UFR /SVT 03, Ouagadougou 03, BP, 7021, Burkina Faso. (4)Research
Group on 'Environmental multi-resistance and efflux pump ', CNRS, Ecole Nationale
Vétérinaire de Lyon, and Université Lyon 1, UMR 5557 Ecologie Microbienne,
Université de Lyon, 43 boulevard du 11 novembre 1918, 69622, Villeurbanne Cedex, 
France. sylvie.nazaret@univ-lyon1.fr.

Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) allows absolute quantification and tolerance to
inhibitors and has been proposed as the method of choice to overcome limitations 
of qPCR. The aim of this study was to evaluate ddPCR and qPCR performances to
detect low copy number and copy number variation of antibiotic resistance genes
(sul1 and qnrB genes encoding for resistance to sulfonamides and quinolones,
respectively) using bacterial genomic DNA (gDNA) and metagenomic DNA extracted
from soil and organic residue samples. With gDNA, qPCR showed a better range of
quantification but the lower limit of quantification was at 15 copies of qnrB
target vs. 1.6 in ddPCR. In the presence of background DNA or inhibitors, we
observed a high loss of sensitivity in qPCR and an overestimation of target
sequences. When using high amount of environmental DNA templates (70 ng per
reaction), ddPCR was still allowing accurate quantification without adding PCR
facilitator (i.e., T4 Gene 32 protein). Sensitivity to detect copy number
variation was tenfold higher in ddPCR than in qPCR. Finally, the advantages of
using ddPCR in environmental studies were confirmed with the quantification of
sul1 and qnrB in soils, manures, or urban wastes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-016-7950-5 
PMID: 27844142  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Biomed Res Int. 2016;2016:7241591. Epub 2016 Oct 20.

Monitoring Minimal Residual Disease in the Myeloproliferative Neoplasms: Current 
Applications and Emerging Approaches.

Haslam K(1), Langabeer SE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Molecular Diagnostics, St. James's Hospital, Dublin 8, Ireland.

The presence of acquired mutations within the JAK2, CALR, and MPL genes in the
majority of patients with myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN) affords the
opportunity to utilise these mutations as markers of minimal residual disease
(MRD). Reduction of the mutated allele burden has been reported in response to a 
number of therapeutic modalities including interferon, JAK inhibitors, and
allogeneic stem cell transplantation; novel therapies in development will also
require assessment of efficacy. Real-time quantitative PCR has been widely
adopted for recurrent point mutations with assays demonstrating the specificity, 
sensitivity, and reproducibility required for clinical utility. More recently,
approaches such as digital PCR have demonstrated comparable, if not improved,
assay characteristics and are likely to play an increasing role in MRD
monitoring. While next-generation sequencing is increasingly valuable as a tool
for diagnosis of MPN, its role in the assessment of MRD requires further
evaluation.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/7241591 
PMCID: PMC5093244
PMID: 27840830  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Front Microbiol. 2016 Oct 28;7:1725. eCollection 2016.

Development of a Droplet Digital Polymerase Chain Reaction for Rapid and
Simultaneous Identification of Common Foodborne Pathogens in Soft Cheese.

Cremonesi P(1), Cortimiglia C(1), Picozzi C(2), Minozzi G(3), Malvisi M(4), Luini
M(5), Castiglioni B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Agricultural Biology and Biotechnology, National Research Council
Lodi, Italy. (2)DeFENS, University of Milan Milan, Italy. (3)PTP Science
ParkLodi, Italy; DiMeVet, University of MilanMilan, Italy. (4)PTP Science Park
Lodi, Italy. (5)Istituto Zooprofilattico Sperimentale della Lombardia e
dell'Emilia Romagna Lodi, Italy.

Dairy products can harbor various microorganisms (e.g., Campylobacter spp.,
Salmonella spp., Listeria monocytogenes, verocytotoxin-producing Escherichia
coli) arising from animal reservoirs, and which can become important sources of
foodborne illness. Therefore, early detection of food pathogens is crucial to
prevent diseases. We wished to develop an accurate quantitative protocol based on
a droplet digital polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR) involving eight individual
TaqMan™ reactions to detect simultaneously, without selective enrichment,
Listeria spp., L. monocytogenes, Salmonella spp., verocytotoxin-producing E. coli
and Campylobacter spp. in cheese. ddPCR (a "third-generation PCR") provides
absolute quantification of target DNAs without requirement of a standard curve,
which simplifies experimentation and data comparability. The accuracy,
specificity and sensitivity of the developed ddPCR system were assessed using
purified DNA from 50 reference pathogenic and non-pathogenic strains from
international or Italian collections and analyzing soft cheese samples
artificially contaminated with serial dilutions (from 4 × 10(6) to 4 × 10(1)
CFU/g) of pure cultures from the American Type Culture Collection. Finally, the
performance of our ddPCR system was compared by parallel testing with
quantitative PCR: it gave higher sensitivity (10(2) CFU/g for the Listeria spp.
assay) without the necessity of a standard curve. In conclusion, this is the
first ddPCR system developed for simultaneous detection of common foodborne
pathogens in cheese using a single set of amplification conditions. As such, it
could become a useful strategy for high-throughput screening of microorganisms to
evaluate the quality and safety of food products.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2016.01725 
PMCID: PMC5083709
PMID: 27840628 


207. Mitochondrion. 2017 Jan;32:16-18. doi: 10.1016/j.mito.2016.11.005. Epub 2016 Nov 
10.

Random shearing as an alternative to digestion for mitochondrial DNA processing
in droplet digital PCR.

Vitomirov A(1), Ramirez-Gaona M(2), Mehta SR(3), Pérez-Santiago J(4).

Author information: 
(1)University of California San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, Stein Research Building
Room 324, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA. Electronic address: avitomirov@ucsd.edu.
(2)University of Alberta, 116 Street & 85 Avenue, Edmonton, AB T6G 2R3, Canada.
Electronic address: miguel1@ualberta.ca. (3)University of California San Diego,
9500 Gilman Drive, Stein Research Building Room 324, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA;
Veterans Administration San Diego Healthcare System, 3350 La Jolla Village Drive,
San Diego, CA 92161, USA. Electronic address: srmehta@ucsd.edu. (4)University of 
California San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, Stein Research Building Room 324, La
Jolla, CA 92093, USA. Electronic address: joperez@ucsd.edu.

Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) is a quantitative assay that requires DNA
fragmentation to maximize reaction efficiency. Here, we measured the proportion
of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) carrying the "common deletion," a rare event, to
compare quantification sensitivities between alternative DNA fragmentation
methods (sonication and QIAshredder spin columns) against enzymatic digestion
(traditionally used). QIAshredder showed the highest sensitivity when compared to
sonication, followed by digestion. Also, both sonication and QIAshredder
fragmentation had shorter processing times than enzymatic digestion; therefore,
QIAshredder fragmentation and sonication are alternative DNA processing methods
that maximize ddPCR quantification for the detection of rare events.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mito.2016.11.005 
PMCID: PMC5218872 [Available on 2017-07-01]
PMID: 27838478 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


208. Plant Physiol Biochem. 2016 Dec;109:561-570. doi: 10.1016/j.plaphy.2016.11.002.
Epub 2016 Nov 5.

Comparative transcriptome profiling of chilling stress responsiveness in grafted 
watermelon seedlings.

Xu J(1), Zhang M(2), Liu G(2), Yang X(2), Hou X(3).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Crop Genetics and Germplasm Enhancement, College of
Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095, Jiangsu, China;
Institute of Vegetable, Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural Sciences/Jiangsu Key
Laboratory for Horticultural Crop Genetic Improvement, Nanjing 210014, Jiangsu,
China. (2)Institute of Vegetable, Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural
Sciences/Jiangsu Key Laboratory for Horticultural Crop Genetic Improvement,
Nanjing 210014, Jiangsu, China. (3)State Key Laboratory of Crop Genetics and
Germplasm Enhancement, College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, 
Nanjing 210095, Jiangsu, China. Electronic address: hxl@njau.edu.cn.

Rootstock grafting may improve the resistance of watermelon plants to low
temperatures. However, information regarding the molecular responses of rootstock
grafted plants to chilling stress is limited. To elucidate the molecular
mechanisms of chilling tolerance in grafted plants, the transcriptomic responses 
of grafted watermelon under chilling stress were analyzed using RNA-seq analysis.
Sequencing data were used for digital gene expression (DGE) analysis to
characterize the transcriptomic responses in grafted watermelon seedlings. A
total of 702 differentially-expressed genes (DEGs) were found in rootstock
grafted (RG) watermelon relative to self-grafted (SG) watermelon; among these
genes, 522 genes were up-regulated and 180 were down-regulated. Additionally, 164
and 953 genes were found to specifically expressed in RG and SG seedlings under
chilling stress, respectively. Functional annotations revealed that up-regulated 
DEGs are involved in protein processing, plant-pathogen interaction and the
spliceosome, whereas down-regulated DEGs are associated with photosynthesis.
Moreover, 13 DEGs were randomly selected for quantitative real time PCR (qRT-PCR)
analysis. The expression profiles of these 13 DEGs were consistent with those
detected by the DGE analysis, supporting the reliability of the DGE data. This
work provides additional insight into the molecular basis of grafted watermelon
responses to chilling stress.

Copyright Â© 2016. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plaphy.2016.11.002 
PMID: 27837724 


209. Clin Transl Oncol. 2016 Nov 11. [Epub ahead of print]

HER2 mRNA transcript quantitation in breast cancer.

Meehan K(1), Clynick B(2), Mirzai B(2,)(3), Maslen P(2), Harvey JM(2,)(3), Erber 
WN(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine (M504), University of Western
Australia, Crawley, WA, 6009, Australia. katie.meehan@uwa.edu.au. (2)School of
Pathology and Laboratory Medicine (M504), University of Western Australia,
Crawley, WA, 6009, Australia. (3)PathWest Laboratory Medicine, Queen Elizabeth II
Medical Centre, Nedlands, WA, 6009, Australia.

PURPOSE: The human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) status in breast
cancer is important for prognostic prediction and the determination of optimal
treatment. Current methods rely on protein expression, as determined by
immunohistochemistry (IHC), as well as gene amplification as determined by in
situ hybridisation (ISH). We explored whether quantitative droplet digital PCR
(ddPCR) can be used for the detection and absolute quantitation of HER2 mRNA.
METHODS: Digital droplet PCR (ddPCR) was performed for HER2 mRNA on 178
formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) breast cancer specimens. HER2 positive,
equivocal and negative cases as defined by standard criteria were included and
both core biopsies and tissue sections were assessed.
RESULTS: HER2 positive cases contained significantly higher levels of HER2 mRNA
(169-1,000,000 copies/µl) by ddPCR compared with equivocal (112-139 copies/µl,
p = 0.025) and negative cases (6.2-644 copies/µl. p < 0.001). A continuum of
transcript quantity was observed but a cutoff of 490 copies/µl distinguished
between HER2 positive and negative cases. Results were consistent between core
biopsy and tissue sections.
CONCLUSIONS: ddPCR can be used to quantify HER2 mRNA transcripts in FFPE breast
cancer specimens. Our results highlight the potential of ddPCR on FFPE tissue to 
be used to accurately quantify HER2 transcripts. Validation in large cohorts will
be required to determine a clinically applicable cutoff.

DOI: 10.1007/s12094-016-1573-2 
PMID: 27837339 


210. BMC Cancer. 2016 Nov 11;16(1):879.

Activins and their related proteins in colon carcinogenesis: insights from early 
and advanced azoxymethane rat models of colon cancer.

Refaat B(1), El-Shemi AG(2,)(3), Mohamed AM(2,)(4), Kensara OA(5), Ahmad J(2),
Idris S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory Medicine Department, Faculty of Applied Medical Sciences, Umm
Al-Qura University, Al-Abdeyah, PO Box 7607, Makkah, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
bassem.refaat@yahoo.co.uk. (2)Laboratory Medicine Department, Faculty of Applied 
Medical Sciences, Umm Al-Qura University, Al-Abdeyah, PO Box 7607, Makkah,
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. (3)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine,
Assiut University, Assiut, Egypt. (4)Clinical Laboratory Diagnosis, Department of
Animal Medicine, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Assiut University, 71526,
Assiut, Egypt. (5)Clinical Nutrition Department, Faculty of Applied Medical
Sciences, Umm Al-Qura University, Al-Abdeyah, PO Box 7607, Makkah, Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia.

BACKGROUND: Activin-A may exert pro- or anti-tumorigenic activities depending on 
cellular context. However, little is known about its role, or the other mature
activin proteins, in colorectal carcinoma (CRC). This study measured the
expression of activin βA- & βB-subunits, activin type IIA & IIB receptors, smads 
2/3/4/6/7 and follistatin in CRC induced by azoxymethane (AOM) in rats. The
results were compared with controls and disseminated according to the
characteristics of histopathological lesions.
METHODS: Eighty male Wistar rats were allocated into 20 controls and the
remaining were equally divided between short 'S-AOM' (15 weeks) and long 'L-AOM' 
(35 weeks) groups following injecting AOM for 2 weeks. Subsequent to gross and
histopathological examinations and digital image analysis, the expression of all 
molecules was measured by immunohistochemistry and quantitative RT-PCR.
Activin-A, activin-B, activin-AB and follistatin were measured by ELISA in serum 
and colon tissue homogenates.
RESULTS: Colonic pre-neoplastic and cancerous lesions were identified in both AOM
groups and their numbers and sizes were significantly (P < 0.05) greater in the
L-AOM group. All the molecules were expressed in normal colonic epithelial cells.
There was a significantly (P < 0.05) greater expression of βA-subunit, IIB
receptor and follistatin in both pre-neoplastic and cancerous tissues.
Oppositely, a significant (P < 0.05) decrease in the remaining molecules was
detected in both AOM groups. Metastatic lesions were only observed within the
L-AOM group and were associated with the most significant alterations of all
molecules. Significantly higher concentrations of activin-A and follistatin and
lower activin-AB were also detected in both groups of AOM. Tissue and serum
concentrations of activin-A and follistatin correlated positively, while tissue
activin-AB inversely, and significantly with the numbers and sizes of colonic
lesions.
CONCLUSIONS: Normal rat colon epithelial cells are capable of synthesising,
controlling as well as responding to activins in a paracrine/autocrine manner.
Colonic activin systems are pathologically altered during tumorigenesis and
appear to be time and lesion-dependent. Activins could also be potential
sensitive markers and/or molecular targets for the diagnosis and/or treatment of 
CRC. Further studies are required to illustrate the clinical value of activins
and their related proteins in colon cancer.

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-016-2914-9 
PMCID: PMC5106801
PMID: 27835986 


211. Oncotarget. 2016 Dec 27;7(52):86469-86479. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.13246.

Droplet digital PCR analysis of NOTCH1 gene mutations in chronic lymphocytic
leukemia.

Minervini A(1), Francesco Minervini C(1), Anelli L(1), Zagaria A(1), Casieri
P(1), Coccaro N(1), Cumbo C(1), Tota G(1), Impera L(1), Orsini P(1), Brunetti
C(1), Giordano A(1), Specchia G(1), Albano F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Emergency and Organ Transplantation (D.E.T.O.), Hematology
Section, University of Bari, Bari, 70124 Italy.

In chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), NOTCH1 gene mutations (NOTCH1mut) have
been associated with adverse prognostic features but the independence of these as
a prognostic factor is still controversial. In our study we validated a
c.7541-7542delCT NOTCH1 mutation assay based on droplet digital PCR (ddPCR); we
also analyzed the NOTCH1mut allelic burden, expressed as fractional abundance
(FA), in 88 CLL patients at diagnosis to assess its prognostic role and made a
longitudinal ddPCR analysis in 10 cases harboring NOTCH1mut to verify the FA
variation over time. Our data revealed that with the ddPCR approach the incidence
of NOTCH1mut in CLL was much higher (53.4%) than expected. However, longitudinal 
ddPCR analysis of CLL cases showed a statistically significant reduction of the
NOTCH1mut FA detected at diagnosis after treatment (median FA 11.67 % vs 0.09 %, 
respectively, p = 0.01); the same difference, in terms of NOTCH1mut FA, was
observed in the relapsed cases compared to the NOTCH1mut allelic fraction
observed in patients in complete or partial remission (median FA 4.75% vs 0.43%, 
respectively, p = 0.007). Our study demonstrated a much higher incidence of
NOTCH1mut in CLL than has previously been reported, and showed that the NOTCH1mut
allelic burden evaluation by ddPCR might identify patients in need of a closer
clinical follow-up during the "watch and wait" interval and after standard
chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.13246 
PMID: 27835908 


212. Biosens Bioelectron. 2017 Jun 15;92:596-601. doi: 10.1016/j.bios.2016.10.054.
Epub 2016 Oct 22.

Digital quantification of gene methylation in stool DNA by emulsion-PCR coupled
with hydrogel immobilized bead-array.

Liu Y(1), Wu H(2), Zhou Q(3), Song Q(4), Rui J(1), Zou B(5), Zhou G(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Jinling Hospital, Medical School of Nanjing
University, Nanjing 210002, China. (2)Huadong Research Institute for Medicine and
Biotechnics, Nanjing 210002, China. (3)Key Laboratory of Drug Quality Control and
Pharmacovigilance of Ministry of Education, China Pharmaceutical University,
Nanjing 210009, China. (4)Department of Pharmacology, Jinling Hospital, Medical
School of Nanjing University, Nanjing 210002, China; Key Laboratory of Drug
Quality Control and Pharmacovigilance of Ministry of Education, China
Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing 210009, China. (5)Department of Pharmacology, 
Jinling Hospital, Medical School of Nanjing University, Nanjing 210002, China.
Electronic address: zbj523@163.com. (6)Department of Pharmacology, Jinling
Hospital, Medical School of Nanjing University, Nanjing 210002, China; State Key 
Laboratory of Analytical Chemistry for Life Science, Department of Chemistry,
Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China. Electronic address: ghzhou@nju.edu.cn.

Aberrations of gene methylation in stool DNA (sDNA) is an effective biomarker for
non-invasive colorectal cancer diagnosis. However, it is challenging to
accurately quantitate the gene methylation levels in sDNA due to the low
abundance and degradation of sDNA. In this study, a digital quantification
strategy was proposed by combining emulsion PCR (emPCR) with hydrogel immobilized
bead-array. The assay includes following steps: bisulfite conversion of sDNA,
pre-amplification by PCR with specific primers containing 5' universal sequences,
emPCR of pre-amplicons with beaded primers to achieve single-molecular
amplification and identification of hydrogel embedding beads coated with
amplicons. The sensitivity and the specificity of the method are high enough to
pick up 0.05% methylated targets from unmethylated DNA background. The successful
detection of hypermethylated vimentin gene in clinical stool samples suggests
that the proposed method should be a potential tool for non-invasive colorectal
cancer screening.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bios.2016.10.054 
PMID: 27829567  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Stem Cell Reports. 2016 Nov 8;7(5):998-1012. doi: 10.1016/j.stemcr.2016.10.003.

Detecting Genetic Mosaicism in Cultures of Human Pluripotent Stem Cells.

Baker D(1), Hirst AJ(2), Gokhale PJ(2), Juarez MA(3), Williams S(4), Wheeler
M(4), Bean K(4), Allison TF(2), Moore HD(2), Andrews PW(2), Barbaric I(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Science, Centre for Stem Cell Biology, The University
of Sheffield, Sheffield S10 2TN, UK; Sheffield Diagnostic Genetic Services,
Sheffield Children's Hospital, Sheffield S10 2TH, UK. (2)Department of Biomedical
Science, Centre for Stem Cell Biology, The University of Sheffield, Sheffield S10
2TN, UK. (3)School of Mathematics and Statistics, The University of Sheffield,
Sheffield S3 7RH, UK. (4)Sheffield Diagnostic Genetic Services, Sheffield
Children's Hospital, Sheffield S10 2TH, UK. (5)Department of Biomedical Science, 
Centre for Stem Cell Biology, The University of Sheffield, Sheffield S10 2TN, UK.
Electronic address: i.barbaric@sheffield.ac.uk.

Genetic changes in human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) gained during culture can
confound experimental results and potentially jeopardize the outcome of clinical 
therapies. Particularly common changes in hPSCs are trisomies of chromosomes 1,
12, 17, and 20. Thus, hPSCs should be regularly screened for such aberrations.
Although a number of methods are used to assess hPSC genotypes, there has been no
systematic evaluation of the sensitivity of the commonly used techniques in
detecting low-level mosaicism in hPSC cultures. We have performed mixing
experiments to mimic the naturally occurring mosaicism and have assessed the
sensitivity of chromosome banding, qPCR, fluorescence in situ hybridization, and 
digital droplet PCR in detecting variants. Our analysis highlights the limits of 
mosaicism detection by the commonly employed methods, a pivotal requirement for
interpreting the genetic status of hPSCs and for setting standards for safe
applications of hPSCs in regenerative medicine.

Copyright © 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.stemcr.2016.10.003 
PMCID: PMC5106530
PMID: 27829140 


214. Int J Oncol. 2016 Nov;49(5):2088-2104. doi: 10.3892/ijo.2016.3707. Epub 2016 Sep 
26.

Development and validation of an ultra-high sensitive next-generation sequencing 
assay for molecular diagnosis of clinical oncology.

Liang J(1), She Y(2), Zhu J(3), Wei L(3), Zhang L(3), Gao L(3), Wang Y(3), Xing
J(3), Guo Y(3), Meng X(3), Li P(2).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Biomembrane and Membrane Biotechnology, School of
Medicine, National Engineering Laboratory for Anti-tumor Therapeutics, Tsinghua
University, Beijing 100084, P.R. China. (2)Department of General Surgery, Chinese
PLA General Hospital, Beijing 100853, P.R. China. (3)Novogene Bioinformatics
Institute, Beijing 100083, P.R. China.

Dramatic improvements in the understanding of oncogenes have spurred the
development of molecular target therapies, which created an exigent need for
comprehensive and rapid clinical genotyping. Next-generation sequencing (NGS)
assay with increased performance and decreased cost is becoming more widely used 
in clinical diagnosis. However, the optimization and validation of NGS assay
remain a challenge, especially for the detection of somatic variants at low
mutant allele fraction (MAF). In the present study, we developed and validated
the Novogene Comprehensive Panel (NCP) based on targeted capture for NGS
analysis. Due to the high correlation between SNV/INDEL detection performance and
target coverage, here we focused on these two types of variants for our deep
sequencing strategy. To validate the capability of NCP in single-nucleotide
variant (SNV) and small insert and deletion (INDEL) detection, we implemented a
practical validation strategy with pooled cell lines, deep sequencing of pooled
samples (>2000X average unique coverage across target region) achieving >99%
sensitivity and high specificity (positive predictive value, PPV >99%) for all
types of variations with expected MAF >5%. Furthermore, given the high
sensitivity and that false positive may exist in this assay, we confirmed its
accuracy of variants with MAF <5% using 35 formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded
(FFPE) tumor specimens by Quantstudio 3D Digital PCR (dPCR; Life Technologies)
and obtained a high consistency (32 of 35 mutations detected by NGS were
verified). We also used the amplification refractory mutation system (ARMS) to
verify the variants with a MAF in a broad range of 2-63% detected in 33 FFPE
samples and reached a 100% PPV for this assay. As a potential clinical diagnosis 
tool, NCP can robustly and comprehensively analyze clinical-related genes with
high sensitivity and low cost.

DOI: 10.3892/ijo.2016.3707 
PMID: 27826616 


215. Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2016 Oct;5(5):505-510.

Next generation sequencing techniques in liquid biopsy: focus on non-small cell
lung cancer patients.

Malapelle U(1), Pisapia P(1), Rocco D(2), Smeraglio R(1), di Spirito M(1),
Bellevicine C(1), Troncone G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Naples Federico II, Naples, Italy. 
(2)Oncology Unit, A.O.R.N. Vincenzo Monaldi - Ospedale dei Colli, Naples, Italy.

The advent of genomic based personalized medicine has led to multiple advances in
the molecular characterization of many tumor types, such as non-small cell lung
cancer (NSCLC). NSCLC is diagnosed in most cases on small tissue samples that may
be not always sufficient for EGFR mutational assessment to select patients for
first and second generations' tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) therapy. In
patients without tissue availability at presentation, the analysis of cell free
DNA (cfDNA) derived from liquid biopsy samples, in particular from plasma,
represent an established alternative to provide EGFR mutational testing for
treatment decision making. In addition, a new paradigm for TKIs resistance
management was recently approved by Food and Drug Administration, supporting the 
liquid biopsy based genotyping prior to tissue based genotyping for the detection
of T790M mutation to select patients for third generation TKIs. In these
settings, real time PCR (RT-PCR) and digital PCR 'targeted' methods, which detect
known mutations by specific probes, have extensively been adopted. Taking into
account the restricted reference range and the limited multiplexing power of
these targeted methods, the performance of liquid biopsy analyses may be further 
improved by next generation sequencing (NGS). While most tissue based NGS
genotyping is well established, liquid biopsy NGS application is challenging,
requiring a careful validation of the whole process, from blood collection to
variant calling. Here we review this evolving field, highlighting those
methodological points that are crucial to accurately select NSCLC patients for
TKIs treatment administration by NGS on cfDNA.

DOI: 10.21037/tlcr.2016.10.08 
PMCID: PMC5099511
PMID: 27826531 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to
declare.


216. BMC Genomics. 2016 Nov 8;17(1):893.

Arabidopsis thaliana population analysis reveals high plasticity of the genomic
region spanning MSH2, AT3G18530 and AT3G18535 genes and provides evidence for
NAHR-driven recurrent CNV events occurring in this location.

Zmienko A(1,)(2), Samelak-Czajka A(2), Kozlowski P(1), Szymanska M(1),
Figlerowicz M(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry, Polish Academy of Sciences, Noskowskiego
12/14, 61-704, Poznan, Poland. (2)Institute of Computing Science, Poznan
University of Technology, Piotrowo 2, 60-965, Poznan, Poland. (3)Institute of
Bioorganic Chemistry, Polish Academy of Sciences, Noskowskiego 12/14, 61-704,
Poznan, Poland. marekf@ibch.poznan.pl. (4)Institute of Computing Science, Poznan 
University of Technology, Piotrowo 2, 60-965, Poznan, Poland.
marekf@ibch.poznan.pl.

BACKGROUND: Intraspecies copy number variations (CNVs), defined as unbalanced
structural variations of specific genomic loci, ≥1 kb in size, are present in the
genomes of animals and plants. A growing number of examples indicate that CNVs
may have functional significance and contribute to phenotypic diversity. In the
model plant Arabidopsis thaliana at least several hundred protein-coding genes
might display CNV; however, locus-specific genotyping studies in this plant have 
not been conducted.
RESULTS: We analyzed the natural CNVs in the region overlapping MSH2 gene that
encodes the DNA mismatch repair protein, and AT3G18530 and AT3G18535 genes that
encode poorly characterized proteins. By applying multiplex ligation-dependent
probe amplification and droplet digital PCR we genotyped those genes in 189 A.
thaliana accessions. We found that AT3G18530 and AT3G18535 were duplicated (2-14 
times) in 20 and deleted in 101 accessions. MSH2 was duplicated in 12 accessions 
(up to 12-14 copies) but never deleted. In all but one case, the MSH2
duplications were associated with those of AT3G18530 and AT3G18535. Considering
the structure of the CNVs, we distinguished 5 genotypes for this region,
determined their frequency and geographical distribution. We defined the CNV
breakpoints in 35 accessions with AT3G18530 and AT3G18535 deletions and tandem
duplications and showed that they were reciprocal events, resulting from
non-allelic homologous recombination between 99 %-identical sequences flanking
these genes. The widespread geographical distribution of the deletions supported 
by the SNP and linkage disequilibrium analyses of the genomic sequence confirmed 
the recurrent nature of this CNV.
CONCLUSIONS: We characterized in detail for the first time the complex
multiallelic CNV in Arabidopsis genome. The region encoding MSH2, AT3G18530 and
AT3G18535 genes shows enormous variation of copy numbers among natural ecotypes, 
being a remarkable example of high Arabidopsis genome plasticity. We provided the
molecular insight into the mechanism underlying the recurrent nature of
AT3G18530-AT3G18535 duplications/deletions. We also performed the first direct
comparison of the two leading experimental methods, suitable for assessing the
DNA copy number status. Our comprehensive case study provides foundation
information for further analyses of CNV evolution in Arabidopsis and other
plants, and their possible use in plant breeding.

DOI: 10.1186/s12864-016-3221-1 
PMCID: PMC5101643
PMID: 27825302 


217. Methods Mol Biol. 2017;1492:167-177.

Quantitative DNA Analysis Using Droplet Digital PCR.

Vossen RH(1), White SJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Leiden Genome Technology Center, Department of Human Genetics, Leiden
University Medical Center, Einthovenweg 20, 2333 ZC, Leiden, The Netherlands.
(2)Leiden Genome Technology Center, Department of Human Genetics, Leiden
University Medical Center, Einthovenweg 20, 2333 ZC, Leiden, The Netherlands.
s.j.white@lumc.nl.

Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) is based on the isolated amplification of thousands
of individual DNA molecules simultaneously, with each molecule compartmentalized 
in a droplet. The presence of amplified product in each droplet is indicated by a
fluorescent signal, and the proportion of positive droplets allows the precise
quantification of a given sequence. In this chapter we briefly outline the basis 
of ddPCR, and describe two different applications using the Bio-Rad QX200 system:
genotyping copy number variation and quantification of Illumina sequencing
libraries.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-6442-0_11 
PMID: 27822863 


218. Biosens Bioelectron. 2017 Apr 15;90:459-474. doi: 10.1016/j.bios.2016.09.082.
Epub 2016 Sep 25.

Advances in digital polymerase chain reaction (dPCR) and its emerging biomedical 
applications.

Cao L(1), Cui X(1), Hu J(1), Li Z(1), Choi JR(1), Yang Q(1), Lin M(1), Ying Hui
L(2), Xu F(3).

Author information: 
(1)The Key Laboratory of Biomedical Information Engineering of Ministry of
Education, School of Life Science and Technology, Xi'an Jiaotong University,
Xi'an 710049, PR China; Bioinspired Engineering and Biomechanics Center (BEBC),
Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an 710049, PR China. (2)Foundation of State Key
Laboratory of Space Medicine Fundamentals and Application, China Astronaut
Research and Training Center, Beijing 100094, PR China. (3)The Key Laboratory of 
Biomedical Information Engineering of Ministry of Education, School of Life
Science and Technology, Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an 710049, PR China;
Bioinspired Engineering and Biomechanics Center (BEBC), Xi'an Jiaotong
University, Xi'an 710049, PR China. Electronic address: fengxu@mail.xjtu.edu.cn.

Since the invention of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in 1985, PCR has played a 
significant role in molecular diagnostics for genetic diseases, pathogens,
oncogenes and forensic identification. In the past three decades, PCR has evolved
from end-point PCR, through real-time PCR, to its current version, which is the
absolute quantitive digital PCR (dPCR). In this review, we first discuss the
principles of all key steps of dPCR, i.e., sample dispersion, amplification, and 
quantification, covering commercialized apparatuses and other devices still under
lab development. We highlight the advantages and disadvantages of different
technologies based on these steps, and discuss the emerging biomedical
applications of dPCR. Finally, we provide a glimpse of the existing challenges
and future perspectives for dPCR.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bios.2016.09.082 
PMID: 27818047  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Anim Biotechnol. 2016 Nov 4:1-7. [Epub ahead of print]

Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms in IL8 and TLR4 Genes as Candidates for Digital
Dermatitis Resistance/Susceptibility in Holstein Cattle.

El-Shafaey ES(1), Ateya A(2), Ramadan H(3), Saleh R(4), Elseady Y(4), Abo El Fadl
E(2), El-Khodery S(5).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Surgery, Anesthesiology and Radiology, Faculty of Veterinary
Medicine , Mansoura University , Mansoura , Egypt. (2)b Department of Animal
Husbandry and Animal Wealth Development, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine ,
Mansoura University , Mansoura , Egypt. (3)c Department of Hygiene and Zoonoses, 
Faculty of Veterinary Medicine , Mansoura University , Mansoura , Egypt. (4)d
Department of Animal Physiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine , Mansoura
University , Mansoura , Egypt. (5)e Department of Internal Medicine and
Infectious Diseases, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine , Mansoura University ,
Mansoura , Egypt.

Relatedness between single nucleotide polymorphisms in IL8 and TLR4 genes and
digital dermatitis resistance/susceptibility was investigated in seventy Holstein
dairy cows. Animals were assigned into two groups, affected group (n = 35) and
resistant group (n = 35) based on clinical signs and previous history of farm
clinical records. Blood samples were collected for DNA extraction to ampliy
fragments of 267-bp and 382-bp for IL8 and TLR4 genes, respectively. PCR-DNA
sequencing revealed three SNPs in each of IL8 and TLR4 genes. The identified SNPs
associated with digital dermatitis resistance were C94T, A220G, and T262A for IL8
and C118T for TLR4. However, the G349C and C355A SNPs in TLR4 gene were
associated with digital dermatitis susceptibility. Chi-square analysis for
comparison the distribution of all identified SNPs in both IL8 and TLR4 genes
between resistant and affected animals showed no significant variation among the 
identified SNPs in IL8 gene. Meanwhile, there was a significant variation in case
of TLR4 gene. As a pilot study, the present results revealed that identified SNPs
in IL8 and TLR4 genes can be used as a genetic marker and predisposing factor for
resistance/susceptibility to digital dermatitis in dairy cows. However, TLR4 gene
may be a potential candidate for such disease.

DOI: 10.1080/10495398.2016.1242489 
PMID: 27813832 


220. J Mol Diagn. 2017 Jan;19(1):126-136. doi: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2016.08.005. Epub 2016
Nov 1.

FOXL2 402C>G Mutation Can Be Identified in the Circulating Tumor DNA of Patients 
with Adult-Type Granulosa Cell Tumor.

Färkkilä A(1), McConechy MK(2), Yang W(3), Talhouk A(3), Ng Y(3), Lum A(3), Morin
RD(4), Bushell K(4), Riska A(1), McAlpine JN(5), Gilks CB(6), Unkila-Kallio L(1),
Anttonen M(7), Huntsman DG(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Children's Hospital, University of
Helsinki and Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, Finland. (2)Department of
Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of British Columbia, and the
Department of Molecular Oncology, BC Cancer Agency, Vancouver, British Columbia, 
Canada; Department of Human Genetics, Research Institute of the McGill University
Health Network, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. (3)Department of
Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of British Columbia, and the
Department of Molecular Oncology, BC Cancer Agency, Vancouver, British Columbia, 
Canada. (4)Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, Simon Fraser
University, Burnaby, British Columbia, Canada. (5)Department of Obstetrics and
Gynaecology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver General Hospital,
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. (6)Department of Pathology and Laboratory
Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver General Hospital, Vancouver, 
British Columbia, Canada. (7)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology and
Children's Hospital, University of Helsinki and Helsinki University Hospital,
Helsinki, Finland; Department of Clinical Chemistry and Hematology, University of
Helsinki and HUSLAB, Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, Finland.
(8)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of British
Columbia, and the Department of Molecular Oncology, BC Cancer Agency, Vancouver, 
British Columbia, Canada. Electronic address: dhuntsma@bccancer.bc.ca.

Adult granulosa cell tumors (AGCTs) of the ovary are molecularly characterized by
the pathognomonic FOXL2 402C>G (C134W) mutation. To improve diagnostics and
follow-up, we developed a specific digital droplet PCR (ddPCR) assay to detect
the FOXL2 mutation in the circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) of AGCT patients.
Optimization of the ddPCR assay was performed using a TaqMan primer/probe with
the RainDance RainDrop digital PCR system. The ddPCR assay was performed on
circulating cell-free DNA extracted from 120 serial plasma samples collected
prospectively from 35 AGCT patients. The ddPCR assay included a preamplification 
step that is sensitive and specific for detecting the FOXL2-mutated ctDNA at
levels as low as 0.05%. FOXL2 ctDNA mutations were detected in the plasma of 12
of 33 AGCT patients (36%), with both primary (6 of 17, 35%) and recurrent (6 of
31, 19%) tumors. The median tumor size was significantly larger in ctDNA
mutation-positive compared with mutation-negative samples (13.5 cm versus 7.5 cm;
P = 0.003). The ctDNA FOXL2 mutation was detected in four patients without
clinical disease, of which one relapsed during follow-up. As proof of concept, we
established that specific molecular diagnosis of AGCT and detection of AGCT
recurrence can be achieved noninvasively using ctDNA FOXL2 mutation testing.
Further studies are needed to determine the clinical value of ctDNA mutation
testing.

Copyright © 2017 American Society for Investigative Pathology and the Association
for Molecular Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2016.08.005 
PMID: 27810330 


221. J Proteome Res. 2016 Nov 4;15(11):4030-4038. Epub 2016 Aug 29.

State of the Art of Chromosome 18-Centric HPP in 2016: Transcriptome and Proteome
Profiling of Liver Tissue and HepG2 Cells.

Poverennaya EV(1), Kopylov AT(1), Ponomarenko EA(1), Ilgisonis EV(1), Zgoda
VG(1), Tikhonova OV(1), Novikova SE(1), Farafonova TE(1), Kiseleva YY(1), Radko
SP(1), Vakhrushev IV(1), Yarygin KN(1), Moshkovskii SA(1,)(2), Kiseleva OI(1),
Lisitsa AV(1), Sokolov AS(3), Mazur AM(3), Prokhortchouk EB(3), Skryabin KG(3),
Kostrjukova ES(4), Tyakht AV(4), Gorbachev AY(4), Ilina EN(4), Govorun VM(4),
Archakov AI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biomedical Chemistry , Pogodinskaya Street, 10, Moscow 119121,
Russia. (2)Pirogov Russian National Research Medical University , Ostrovitianov
Str. 1, Moscow 117997, Russia. (3)Center "Bioengineering" Russian Academy of
Sciences , Prospect 60-let Oktyabrya, 7, Build.1, Moscow 119071, Russia.
(4)Scientific Research Institute of Physical-Chemical Medicine , Malaya
Pirogovskaya, 1a, Moscow 119435, Russia.

A gene-centric approach was applied for a large-scale study of expression
products of a single chromosome. Transcriptome profiling of liver tissue and
HepG2 cell line was independently performed using two RNA-Seq platforms (SOLiD
and Illumina) and also by Droplet Digital PCR (ddPCR) and quantitative RT-PCR.
Proteome profiling was performed using shotgun LC-MS/MS as well as selected
reaction monitoring with stable isotope-labeled standards (SRM/SIS) for liver
tissue and HepG2 cells. On the basis of SRM/SIS measurements, protein copy
numbers were estimated for the Chromosome 18 (Chr 18) encoded proteins in the
selected types of biological material. These values were compared with expression
levels of corresponding mRNA. As a result, we obtained information about 158 and 
142 transcripts for HepG2 cell line and liver tissue, respectively. SRM/SIS
measurements and shotgun LC-MS/MS allowed us to detect 91 Chr 18-encoded proteins
in total, while an intersection between the HepG2 cell line and liver tissue
proteomes was ∼66%. In total, there were 16 proteins specifically observed in
HepG2 cell line, while 15 proteins were found solely in the liver tissue.
Comparison between proteome and transcriptome revealed a poor correlation (R(2) ≈
0.1) between corresponding mRNA and protein expression levels. The SRM and
shotgun data sets (obtained during 2015-2016) are available in PASSEL (PASS00697)
and ProteomeExchange/PRIDE (PXD004407). All measurements were also uploaded into 
the in-house Chr 18 Knowledgebase at http://kb18.ru/protein/matrix/416126 .

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jproteome.6b00380 
PMID: 27527821 


222. Parasitology. 2017 Apr;144(4):359-367. doi: 10.1017/S0031182016001864. Epub 2016 
Nov 3.

Validation of droplet digital PCR for the detection and absolute quantification
of Borrelia DNA in Ixodes scapularis ticks.

King JL(1), Smith AD(1), Mitchell EA(1), Allen MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Medical Genetics,Center for Biosafety and
Biosecurity, University of North Texas Health Science Center,Fort Worth, TX,USA.

We evaluated the QX200 Droplet Digital PCR (ddPCR™, Bio-Rad) system and protocols
for the detection of the tick-borne pathogens Borrelia burgdorferi and Borrelia
miyamotoi in Ixodes scapularis nymphs and adults collected from North Truro,
Massachusetts. Preliminary screening by nested PCR determined positive infection 
levels of 60% for B. burgdorferi in these ticks. To investigate the utility of
ddPCR as a screening tool and to calculate the absolute number of bacterial
genome copies in an infected tick, we adapted previously reported TaqMan®-based
qPCR assays for ddPCR. ddPCR proved to be a reliable means for detection and
absolute quantification of control bacterial DNA with precision as low as ten
spirochetes in an individual sample. Application of this method revealed the
average carriage level of B. burgdorferi in infected I. scapularis nymphs to be
2291 spirochetes per nymph (range: 230-5268 spirochetes) and 51 179 spirochetes
on average in infected adults (range: 5647-115 797). No ticks naturally infected 
with B. miyamotoi were detected. The ddPCR protocols were at least as sensitive
to conventional qPCR assays but required fewer overall reactions and are
potentially less subject to inhibition. Moreover, the approach can provide
insight on carriage levels of parasites within vectors.

DOI: 10.1017/S0031182016001864 
PMID: 27806739 


223. PLoS One. 2016 Nov 1;11(11):e0165740. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0165740.
eCollection 2016.

Uterine Microbiota and Immune Parameters Associated with Fever in Dairy Cows with
Metritis.

Jeon SJ(1), Cunha F(1), Ma X(1), Martinez N(2), Vieira-Neto A(2), Daetz R(1),
Bicalho RC(3), Lima S(3), Santos JE(2), Jeong KC(2,)(4), Galvão KN(1,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Large Animal Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida, United States of America.
(2)Department of Animal Sciences, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida,
United States of America. (3)Department of Population Medicine and Diagnostic
Sciences, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York, United States of America.
(4)Emerging Pathogens Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida,
United States of America. (5)D. H. Barron Reproductive and Perinatal Biology
Research Program, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida, United States of
America.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate bacterial and host factors causing a
fever in cows with metritis. For that, we investigated uterine microbiota using a
metagenomic sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene (Study 1), and immune response
parameters (Study 2) in metritic cows with and without a fever.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS (STUDY1): Bacterial communities were similar between the
MNoFever and MFever groups based on distance metrics of relative abundance of
bacteria. Metritic cows showed a greater prevalence of Bacteroidetes, and
Bacteroides and Porphyromonas were the largest contributors to that difference. A
comparison of relative abundance at the species level pointed to Bacteroides
pyogenes as a fever-related species which was significantly abundant in the
MFever than the MNoFever and Healthy groups; however, absolute abundance of
Bacteroides pyogenes determined by droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) was similar
between MFever and MNoFever groups, but higher than the Healthy group. The same
trend was observed in the total number of bacteria.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS (STUDY2): The activity of polymorphonuclear leukocyte (PMN)
and the production of TNFα, PGE2 metabolite, and PGE2 were evaluated in serum,
before disease onset, at 0 and 3 DPP. Cows in the MNoFever had decreased
proportion of PMN undergoing phagocytosis and oxidative burst compared with the
MFever. The low PMN activity in the MNoFever was coupled with the low production 
of TNFα, but similar PGE2 metabolite and circulating PGE2.
CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: Our study is the first to show a similar microbiome
between metritic cows with and without a fever, which indicates that the host
response may be more important for fever development than the microbiome.
Bacteroides pyogenes was identified as an important pathogen for the development 
of metritis but not fever. The decreased inflammatory response may explain the
lack of a febrile response in the MNoFever group.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0165740 
PMCID: PMC5089738
PMID: 27802303 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


224. Oncotarget. 2016 Nov 15;7(46):74448-74459. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.12950.

Kinetics, prognostic and predictive values of ESR1 circulating mutations in
metastatic breast cancer patients progressing on aromatase inhibitor.

Clatot F(1,)(2,)(3), Perdrix A(3,)(4), Augusto L(1), Beaussire L(3,)(5), Delacour
J(3,)(5), Calbrix C(4), Sefrioui D(3,)(5,)(6), Viailly PJ(2), Bubenheim M(7),
Moldovan C(1), Alexandru C(1), Tennevet I(1), Rigal O(1), Guillemet C(1),
Leheurteur M(1), Gouérant S(1), Petrau C(1,)(3), Théry JC(1,)(5), Picquenot
JM(1,)(2,)(4), Veyret C(1), Frébourg T(5), Jardin F(2), Sarafan-Vasseur N(3,)(5),
Di Fiore F(1,)(3,)(5,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Henri Becquerel Centre, Rouen, France.
(2)INSERM U918, Henri Becquerel Centre, Rouen, France. (3)EquIpe de Recherche en 
Oncologie, Rouen, France. (4)Department of Biopathology, Henri Becquerel Centre, 
Rouen, France. (5)INSERM U1079, Faculty of Medecine, Rouen, France. (6)Department
of Gastroenterology, Rouen University Hospital, Rouen, France. (7)Department of
Biostatistics, Rouen University Hospital, Rouen, France.

PURPOSE: To assess the prognostic and predictive value of circulating ESR1
mutation and its kinetics before and after progression on aromatase inhibitor
(AI) treatment.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: ESR1 circulating D538G and Y537S/N/C mutations were
retrospectively analyzed by digital droplet PCR after first-line AI failure in
patients treated consecutively from 2010 to 2012 for hormone receptor-positive
metastatic breast cancer. Progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival
(OS) were analyzed according to circulating mutational status and subsequent
lines of treatment. The kinetics of ESR1 mutation before (3 and 6 months) and
after (3 months) AI progression were determined in the available archive plasmas.
RESULTS: Circulating ESR1 mutations were found at AI progression in 44/144
patients included (30.6%). Median follow-up from AI initiation was 40 months
(range 4-94). The median OS was decreased in patients with circulating ESR1
mutation than in patients without mutation (15.5 versus 23.8 months, P=0.0006).
The median PFS was also significantly decreased in patients with ESR1 mutation
than in patients without mutation (5.9 vs 7 months, P=0.002). After AI failure,
there was no difference in outcome for patients receiving chemotherapy (n = 58)
versus non-AI endocrine therapy (n=51) in patients with and without ESR1
mutation. ESR1 circulating mutations were detectable in 75% of all cases before
AI progression, whereas the kinetics 3 months after progression did not correlate
with outcome.
CONCLUSION: ESR1 circulating mutations are independent risk factors for poor
outcome after AI failure, and are frequently detectable before clinical
progression. Interventional studies based on ESR1 circulating status are
warranted.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.12950 
PMID: 27801670 


225. Anal Chem. 2016 Dec 6;88(23):11384-11389. Epub 2016 Nov 11.

Precise Quantitation of MicroRNA in a Single Cell with Droplet Digital PCR Based 
on Ligation Reaction.

Tian H(1), Sun Y(1), Liu C(1), Duan X(1), Tang W(1), Li Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key laboratory of Analytical Chemistry for Life Science of Shaanxi Province,
School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Shaanxi Normal University , 620 Xi 
Chang'an Street, Xi'an, Shaanxi 710119, P. R. China.

MicroRNA (miRNA) analysis in a single cell is extremely important because it
allows deep understanding of the exact correlation between the miRNAs and cell
functions. Herein, we wish to report a highly sensitive and precisely
quantitative assay for miRNA detection based on ligation-based droplet digital
polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR), which permits the quantitation of miRNA in a
single cell. In this ligation-based ddPCR assay, two target-specific
oligonucleotide probes can be simply designed to be complementary to the
half-sequence of the target miRNA, respectively, which avoids the sophisticated
design of reverse transcription and provides high specificity to discriminate a
single-base difference among miRNAs with simple operations. After the
miRNA-templated ligation, the ddPCR partitions individual ligated products into a
water-in-oil droplet and digitally counts the fluorescence-positive and negative 
droplets after PCR amplification for quantification of the target molecules,
which possesses the power of precise quantitation and robustness to variation in 
PCR efficiency. By integrating the advantages of the precise quantification of
ddPCR and the simplicity of the ligation-based PCR, the proposed method can
sensitively measure let-7a miRNA with a detection limit of 20 aM (12 copies per
microliter), and even a single-base difference can be discriminated in let-7
family members. More importantly, due to its high selectivity and sensitivity,
the proposed method can achieve precise quantitation of miRNAs in single-cell
lysate. Therefore, the ligation-based ddPCR assay may serve as a useful tool to
exactly reveal the miRNAs' actions in a single cell, which is of great importance
for the study of miRNAs' biofunction as well as for the related biomedical
studies.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.6b01225 
PMID: 27800678 


226. J Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2016 Oct 28;45(1):54.

Investigation of EZH2 pathways for novel epigenetic treatment strategies in
oropharyngeal cancer.

Idris S(1), Lindsay C(1), Kostiuk M(1,)(2), Andrews C(1), Côté DW(1), O'Connell
DA(1,)(2), Harris J(1,)(2), Seikaly H(1,)(2), Biron VL(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery, Department of Surgery,
University of Alberta, 1E4 Walter Mackenzie Centre, 8440-112 Street NW, Edmonton,
AB, Canada, T6G 2B7. (2)Alberta Head & Neck Centre for Oncology and
Reconstruction, 1E4 Walter Mackenzie Centre, 8440-112 Street NW, Edmonton, AB,
Canada, T6G 2B7. (3)Division of Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery, Department of
Surgery, University of Alberta, 1E4 Walter Mackenzie Centre, 8440-112 Street NW, 
Edmonton, AB, Canada, T6G 2B7. vbiron@ualberta.ca. (4)Alberta Head & Neck Centre 
for Oncology and Reconstruction, 1E4 Walter Mackenzie Centre, 8440-112 Street NW,
Edmonton, AB, Canada, T6G 2B7. vbiron@ualberta.ca.

BACKGROUND: In recent decades, the incidence of oropharyngeal squamous cell
carcinoma (OPSCC) has been rising worldwide as a result of increasing oncogenic
human papillomavirus (HPV) infections in the oropharynx. EZH2 is an epigenetic
regulatory protein associated with tumor aggressiveness and negative survival
outcomes in several human cancers. We aimed to determine the role of EZH2 as a
potential therapeutic epigenetic target in HPV-positive and negative OPSCC.
METHODS: The expression of EZH2 was measured by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and
droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) in 2 HPV-positive and 2 HPV-negative cell lines. The 
cell lines were then cultured and treated with one of 3 EZH2 epigenetic
inhibitors (3-deazaneplanocin A, GSK-343 and EPZ005687) or DMSO (control).
Following 2, 4 and 7 days of treatment, cells were analyzed and compared by gene 
expression, cell survival and proliferation assays.
RESULTS: EZH2 targeting resulted in greater inhibition of growth and survival in 
HPV-positive compared to HPV-negative cells lines. The expression profile of
genes important in OPSCC also differed according to HPV-positivity for Ki67,
CCND1, MET and PTEN/PIK3CA, but remained unchanged for EGFR, CDKN2A and p53.
CONCLUSION: Inhibition of EZH2 has anti-tumorigenic effects on OPSCC cells in
culture that is more pronounced in HPV-positive cell lines. EZH2 is a promising
epigenetic target for the treatment of OPSCC.

DOI: 10.1186/s40463-016-0168-9 
PMCID: PMC5084374
PMID: 27793210 


227. Oncotarget. 2017 Jan 10;8(2):2104-2113. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.12881.

Droplet digital PCR is a powerful technique to demonstrate frequent FGFR1
duplication in dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumors.

Fina F(1), Barets D(2), Colin C(3), Bouvier C(2,)(3), Padovani L(4),
Nanni-Metellus I(1), Ouafik L(1), Scavarda D(5), Korshunov A(6), Jones DT(6),
Figarella-Branger D(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Marseille (AP-HM), Hôpital Nord, Service de
Transfert d'Oncologie Biologique, Laboratoire de Biologie Médicale Marseille,
France. (2)APHM, Hôpital de la Timone, Service d'Anatomie Pathologique et de
Neuropathologie, Marseille, France. (3)Aix-Marseille Université, Inserm, CRO2
UMR_S 911, Marseille, France. (4)APHM, Hôpital de la Timone, Service de
Radiothérapie, Marseille, France. (5)APHM, Hôpital de la Timone, Service de
Neurochirurgie Pédiatrique, Marseille, France. (6)Division of Pediatric
Neurooncology, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany.

Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumors (DNT) share V600E mutation in the BRAF
gene with other low grade neuroepithelial tumors (LGNTs). FGFR1 internal tandem
duplication of the tyrosine-kinase domain (FGFR1-ITD), another genetic alteration
that also leads to MAP kinase pathway alteration, has been previously reported in
LGNTs by whole-genome sequencing. In the present study we searched for FGFR1-ITD 
by droplet digital PCR (DDPCR™) and for FGFR1 point mutations by HRM-sequencing
in a series of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) LGNTs including 12 DNT, 2 
oligodendrogliomas lacking IDH mutation and 1p/19q co- deletion (pediatric-type
oligodendrogliomas; PTOs), 3 pediatric diffuse astrocytomas (PDAs), 14
gangliogliomas (GGs) and 5 pilocytic astrocytomas (PAs). We showed by DDPCR™ that
5/12 DNT, but none of the other LGNTs, demonstrated FGFR1-ITD. In addition, these
cases also accumulated phosphorylated-FGFR1 protein as shown by
immunohistochemistry. FGFR1G539R point mutation was only recorded in one DNT that
also showed FGFR1-ITD. Interestingly, these FGFR1 alterations were mutually
exclusive from BRAFV600E mutation that was recorded in 13 LGNTs (3 DNTs, 1 PTO, 2
PDAs, 5 GGs and 2 PAs). Therefore, FGFR1 alteration mainly represented by
FGFR1-ITD is a frequent event in DNT. DDPCR™ is an easy and alternative method
than whole-genome sequencing to detect FGFR1-ITD in FFPE brain tumors, in routine
practice.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.12881 
PMID: 27791984 


228. Front Pharmacol. 2016 Oct 13;7:363. eCollection 2016.

The Droplet Digital PCR: A New Valid Molecular Approach for the Assessment of
B-RAF V600E Mutation in Hairy Cell Leukemia.

Guerrini F(1), Paolicchi M(2), Ghio F(1), Ciabatti E(2), Grassi S(3), Salehzadeh 
S(1), Ercolano G(2), Metelli MR(2), Del Re M(4), Iovino L(1), Petrini I(5),
Carulli G(1), Cecconi N(2), Rousseau M(2), Cervetti G(2), Galimberti S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Hematology, Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine,
University of Pisa Pisa, Italy. (2)UO hematology, Azienda
Ospedaliero-Universitaria Pisana Pisa, Italy. (3)Section of Hematology,
Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of PisaPisa, Italy; 
GeNoMEC, University of SienaSiena, Italy. (4)Clinical Pharmacology and
Pharmacogenetic Unit, Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine,
University of Pisa Pisa, Italy. (5)Section of Pathology, Department of
Translational Medicine and New Technologies, University of Pisa Pisa, Italy.

Hairy cell leukemia (HCL) is a chronic lymphoproliferative B-cell disorder where 
the B-RAF V600E mutation has been recently detected, as reported for solid
neoplasias but not for other B-cell lymphomas. The digital droplet PCR (dd-PCR)
is a molecular technique that, without standard references, is able to accurately
quantitate DNA mutations. ddPCR could be an useful instrument for the detection
of the B-RAF V600E mutation in HCL, where the minimal residual disease monitoring
is fundamental for planning a patients-targeted treatment in the era of new
anti-CD20 and anti-RAF compounds. This retrospective study enrolled 47 patients
observed at the Hematology Unit of the University of Pisa, Italy, from January
2005 to January 2014: 27 patients were affected by "classic" HCL, two by the
variant HCL (vHCL), and 18 by splenic marginal zone lymphoma (SMZL). The aim of
the study was to compare dd-PCR to "classic" quantitative PCR (QT-PCR) in terms
of sensitivity and specificity and to demonstrate its possible use in HCL.
Results showed that: (1) the sensitivity of dd-PCR is about half a logarithm
superior to QT-PCR (5 × 10(-5) vs. 2.5 × 10(-4)), (2) the specificity of the
dd-PCR is comparable to QT-PCR (no patient with marginal splenic lymphoma or HCL 
variant resulted mutated), (3) its high sensitivity would allow to use dd-PCR in 
the monitoring of MRD. At the end of treatment, among patients in complete
remission, 33% were still MRD-positive by dd-PCR versus 28% by QT-PCR versus 11% 
by the evaluation of the B-cell clonality, after 12 months, dd-PCR was comparable
to QT-PCR and both detected the B-RAF mutation in 15% of cases defined as
MRD-negative by IgH rearrangement. Moreover, (4) the feasibility and the costs of
dd-PCR are comparable to those of QT-PCR. In conclusion, our study supports the
introduction of dd-PCR in the scenario of HCL, also during the follow-up.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2016.00363 
PMCID: PMC5061817
PMID: 27790140 


229. Clin Chem. 2016 Nov;62(11):1492-1503. Epub 2016 Sep 13.

Analysis of Base-Position Error Rate of Next-Generation Sequencing to Detect
Tumor Mutations in Circulating DNA.

Pécuchet N(1,)(2), Rozenholc Y(3), Zonta E(1), Pietraz D(1), Didelot A(1), Combe 
P(1,)(2), Gibault L(4), Bachet JB(1,)(5), Taly V(1), Fabre E(1,)(2), Blons
H(1,)(6), Laurent-Puig P(7,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)INSERM UMR-S1147, CNRS SNC 5014, Paris Sorbonne Cité Université, Paris,
France-Equipe labélisée Ligue Contre le cancer. (2)Department of Medical
Oncology, Hôpital Européen Georges Pompidou (HEGP), Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux 
de Paris, Paris, France. (3)MERIT-UMR IRD 216, Paris Sorbonne Cité Université,
Paris, France. (4)Department of Pathology, Hôpital Européen Georges Pompidou
(HEGP), Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Paris, France. (5)Department of
Gastro-enterology, Hôpital Pitié-Salpêtrière, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de
Paris, Paris, France. (6)Department of Biochemistry, Pharmacogenetic and
Molecular Oncology Unit, Hôpital Européen Georges Pompidou (HEGP), Assistance
Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Paris, France. (7)INSERM UMR-S1147, CNRS SNC 5014,
Paris Sorbonne Cité Université, Paris, France-Equipe labélisée Ligue Contre le
cancer; pierre.laurent-puig@parisdescartes.fr.

BACKGROUND: Detecting single-nucleotide variations and insertions/deletions in
circulating tumor DNA is challenging because of their low allele frequency. The
clinical use of circulating tumor DNA to characterize tumor genetic alterations
requires new methods based on next-generation sequencing.
METHODS: We developed a method based on quantification of error rate of each base
position [position error rate (PER)]. To identify mutations, a binomial test was 
used to compare the minor-allele frequency to the measured PER at each base
position. This process was validated in control samples and in 373 plasma samples
from patients with lung or pancreatic cancer.
RESULTS: Minimal mutated allele frequencies were 0.003 for single-nucleotide
variations and 0.001 for insertions/deletions. Independent testing performed by
droplet digital PCR (n = 231 plasma samples) showed strong agreement with the
base-PER method (κ = 0.90).
CONCLUSIONS: Targeted next-generation sequencing analyzed with the base-PER
method represents a robust and low cost method to detect circulating tumor DNA in
patients with cancer.

© 2016 American Association for Clinical Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2016.258236 
PMID: 27624137 


230. Clin Chem. 2016 Nov;62(11):1482-1491. Epub 2016 Sep 2.

Detection of KRAS Mutations in Circulating Tumor DNA by Digital PCR in Early
Stages of Pancreatic Cancer.

Brychta N(1), Krahn T(1), von Ahsen O(2).

Author information: 
(1)Bayer Pharma AG, Biomarker Research, Berlin, Germany. (2)Bayer Pharma AG,
Biomarker Research, Berlin, Germany. oliver.vonahsen@bayer.com.

BACKGROUND: Since surgical removal remains the only cure for pancreatic cancer,
early detection is of utmost importance. Circulating biomarkers have potential as
diagnostic tool for pancreatic cancer, which typically causes clinical symptoms
only in advanced stage. Because of their high prevalence in pancreatic cancer,
KRAS proto-oncogene, GTPase [KRAS (previous name: Kirsten rat sarcoma viral
oncogene homolog)] mutations may be used to identify tumor-derived circulating
plasma DNA. Here we tested the diagnostic sensitivity of chip based digital PCR
for the detection of KRAS mutations in circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) in early
stage pancreatic cancer.
METHODS: We analyzed matched plasma (2 mL) and tumor samples from 50 patients
with pancreatic cancer. Early stages (I and II) were predominant (41/50) in this 
cohort. DNA was extracted from tumor and plasma samples and tested for the common
codon 12 mutations G12D, G12V, and G12C by chip-based digital PCR.
RESULTS: We identified KRAS mutations in 72% of the tumors. 44% of the tumors
were positive for G12D, 20% for G12V, and 10% for G12C. One tumor was positive
for G12D and G12V. Analysis of the mutations in matched plasma samples revealed
detection rates of 36% for G12D, 50% for G12V, and 0% for G12C. The detection
appeared to be correlated with total number of tumor cells in the primary tumor. 
No KRAS mutations were detected in 20 samples of healthy control plasma.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results support further evaluation of tumor specific mutations
as early diagnostic biomarkers using plasma samples as liquid biopsy.

© 2016 American Association for Clinical Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2016.257469 
PMID: 27591291 


231. BMC Biotechnol. 2016 Oct 27;16(1):74.

Event-specific detection of transgenic potato AV43-6-G7 using real-time and
digital PCR methods.

Gao H(1), Yu X(2), Deng T(3), Sun M(4), Xiao X(4), Huang X(3), Chen Y(3), Li
R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Shandong Entry-Exit Inspection and Quarantine Bureau of People's Republic of
China, Qingdao, China. ghw75@126.com. (2)Qingdao University Medical College,
Qingdao, China. (3)Chinese Academy of Inspection and Quarantine Institute,
Beijing, China. (4)Shandong Entry-Exit Inspection and Quarantine Bureau of
People's Republic of China, Qingdao, China.

BACKGROUND: The isolation of unknown DNA sequences flanked by known sequences is 
an important task in the event-specific detection of GMOs. None of event-specific
detection method was developed based on the junction sequence of an exogenous
integrant in the transgenic potato AV43-6-G7.
RESULTS: The flanking sequence between the exogenous fragment and recombinant
chromosome of this potato was successfully acquired through exogenous gene
5'-RACE. The event-specific primers and Taqman probe were designed to amplify
fragments spanning the exogenous DNA and potato genomic DNA. The specific
real-time PCR and digital PCR detection methods for AV43-6-G7 potato were
established based on primers designed according to the flanking sequences. The
detection limit of the qualitative PCR assay was 0.01 % for AV43-6-G7 potato in
100 ng of potato genomic DNA, corresponding to approximately 11.6 copies of the
potato haploid genome. The ddPCR assays for Potato AV43-6-G7 achieved a limit of 
quantification of approximately 58 target copies, with RSD ≤ 25 %. The aLOQ of
this system was approximately 1.2 copies.
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicated that these event-specific methods would be
useful for the identification of potato AV43-6-G7.

DOI: 10.1186/s12896-016-0303-8 
PMCID: PMC5081928
PMID: 27784303 


232. Neurosci Lett. 2017 Jan 1;636:48-57. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2016.10.042. Epub 2016
Oct 22.

Next-generation sequencing-based small RNA profiling of cerebrospinal fluid
exosomes.

Yagi Y(1), Ohkubo T(1), Kawaji H(2), Machida A(1), Miyata H(1), Goda S(3), Roy
S(4), Hayashizaki Y(5), Suzuki H(4), Yokota T(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Neurological Science, Graduate School of Medical
and Dental Sciences, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, 1-5-45 Yushima, Bunkyo,
Tokyo 113-8519, Japan; Center for Brain Integration Research (CBIR), Tokyo
Medical and Dental University, 1-5-45 Yushima, Bunkyo, Tokyo 113-8519, Japan.
(2)RIKEN Preventive Medicine and Diagnosis Innovation Program, 2-1 Hirosawa,
Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan; RIKEN Center for Life Science Technologies,
Division of Genomic Technologies, 1-7-22 Suehiro-cho, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama,
Kanagawa 230-0045, Japan; RIKEN Advanced Center for Computing and Communication, 
Preventive medicine and applied genomics unit, 1-7-22 Suehiro-cho, Tsurumi-ku,
Yokohama, Kanagawa 230-0045, Japan; RIKEN Omics Science Center, Yokohama
Institute, 1-7-22 Suehiro-cho, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa 230-0045, Japan.
(3)RIKEN Omics Science Center, Yokohama Institute, 1-7-22 Suehiro-cho,
Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa 230-0045, Japan. (4)RIKEN Center for Life Science 
Technologies, Division of Genomic Technologies, 1-7-22 Suehiro-cho, Tsurumi-ku,
Yokohama, Kanagawa 230-0045, Japan; RIKEN Omics Science Center, Yokohama
Institute, 1-7-22 Suehiro-cho, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa 230-0045, Japan.
(5)RIKEN Preventive Medicine and Diagnosis Innovation Program, 2-1 Hirosawa,
Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan; RIKEN Omics Science Center, Yokohama Institute,
1-7-22 Suehiro-cho, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa 230-0045, Japan. (6)Department
of Neurology and Neurological Science, Graduate School of Medical and Dental
Sciences, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, 1-5-45 Yushima, Bunkyo, Tokyo
113-8519, Japan; Center for Brain Integration Research (CBIR), Tokyo Medical and 
Dental University, 1-5-45 Yushima, Bunkyo, Tokyo 113-8519, Japan. Electronic
address: tak-yokota.nuro@tmd.ac.jp.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs), particularly those found in human body fluids, have been
suggested as potential biomarkers. Among various body fluids, the cerebrospinal
fluid (CSF) shows promise as a profiling target for diagnosis and monitoring of
neurological diseases. However, relevant genome-scale studies are limited and no 
studies have profiled exosomal miRNAs in CSF. Therefore, we conducted a
next-generation sequencing-based genome-wide survey of small RNAs in the exosomal
and non-exosomal (supernatant) fractions of healthy human CSF as well as serum in
each donor. We observed miRNA enrichment in the exosomal fractions relative to
the supernatant fractions of both CSF and serum. We also observed substantial
differences in exosomal miRNA profiles between CSF and serum. Half of the
reported brain miRNAs were found in CSF exosomal fractions. In particular,
miR-1911-5p, specifically expressed in brain tissue, was detected in CSF but not 
in serum, as confirmed by digital PCR in three additional donors. Our data
suggest that the brain is a major source of CSF exosomal miRNAs. Here we provide 
the important evidence that exosomal miRNAs in CSF may reflect brain
pathophysiology.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2016.10.042 
PMID: 27780738 


233. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev. 2017 Mar;26(3):425-427. doi:
10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-16-0735. Epub 2016 Oct 24.

Inherited Chromosomally Integrated Human Herpesvirus 6 and Breast Cancer.

Gravel A(1), Dubuc I(1), Brooks-Wilson A(2,)(3), Aronson KJ(4), Simard J(5),
Velásquez-García HA(6), Spinelli JJ(6,)(7), Flamand L(8,)(9).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Infectious Disease and Immunity, CHU de Québec Research Center and
Department of Microbiology-Infectious Disease, Quebec, Canada. (2)Canada's
Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre, BC Cancer Agency, Vancouver, British
Columbia, Canada. (3)Department of Biomedical Physiology and Kinesiology, Simon
Fraser University, Burnaby, British Columbia, Canada. (4)Department of Public
Health Sciences, and Queen's Cancer Institute, Queen's University, Kingston,
Ontario, Canada. (5)Department of Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Medicine,
Université Laval, Quebec, Canada. (6)School of Population & Public Health,
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. (7)Cancer
Control Research, BC Cancer Agency, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(8)Division of Infectious Disease and Immunity, CHU de Québec Research Center and
Department of Microbiology-Infectious Disease, Quebec, Canada.
louis.flamand@crchul.ulaval.ca. (9)Department of Microbiology, Infectious Disease
and Immunology, Faculty of Medicine, Université Laval, Quebec, Canada.

Background: Inherited chromosomally integrated human herpesvirus 6 (iciHHV-6) is 
a condition observed in approximately 1% of the population. Whether such a
genetic alteration predisposes to cancer development in currently unknown. Two
studies were conducted to determine whether iciHHV-6 is associated with cancer
development.Methods: First, a screen of 19,597 people from the province of Quebec
(Canada) was conducted. A replication test, using data from a population-based
case-control study of 1,090 women with incident breast cancer and 1,053 controls 
from British Columbia and Ontario (Canada) was conducted. DNA samples were
analyzed by qPCR and droplet digital PCR to identify iciHHV-6(+)
carriers.Results: In the initial study, a potential association between iciHHV-6 
positivity and breast cancer was identified [OR = 2.66; 95% confidence interval
(CI), 0.95-7.44]. In the replication dataset, no association was found between
iciHHV-6 positivity in women and breast cancer (OR = 0.87; 95% CI,
0.35-2.15).Conclusions: We found no statistically significant associations
between inherited chromosomally integrated HHV-6 and breast cancer in
women.Impact: These results do not provide evidence to suggest that iciHHV-6 is a
risk factor for breast cancer. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev; 26(3); 425-7.
©2016 AACR.

©2016 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-16-0735 
PMID: 27777240 


234. Lett Appl Microbiol. 2016 Dec;63(6):458-465. doi: 10.1111/lam.12667. Epub 2016
Oct 24.

Characterization of Aspergillus section Nigri species populations in vineyard
soil using droplet digital PCR.

Palumbo JD(1), O'Keeffe TL(1), Fidelibus MW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Foodborne Toxin Detection and Prevention Research Unit, U.S. Department of
Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, Albany, CA, USA. (2)Kearney
Agricultural Research & Extension Center, University of California, Parlier, CA, 
USA.

Identification of populations of Aspergillus section Nigri species in
environmental samples using traditional methods is laborious and impractical for 
large numbers of samples. We developed species-specific primers and probes for
quantitative droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) to improve sample throughput and
simultaneously detect multiple species in each sample. The ddPCR method was used 
to distinguish Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus welwitschiae, Aspergillus
tubingensis and Aspergillus carbonarius in mixed samples of total DNA. Relative
abundance of each species measured by ddPCR agreed with input ratios of template 
DNAs. Soil samples were collected at six time points over two growing seasons
from two raisin vineyards in Fresno County, California. Aspergillus section Nigri
strains were detected in these soils in the range of 10(2) -10(5)  CFU g(-1) .
Relative abundance of each species varied widely among samples, but in 52 of 60
samples, A. niger was the most abundant species, ranging from 38 to 88% of the
total population. In combination with total plate counts, this ddPCR method
provides a high-throughput method for describing population dynamics of important
potential mycotoxin-producing species in environmental samples.SIGNIFICANCE AND
IMPACT OF THE STUDY: This is the first study to demonstrate the utility of ddPCR 
as a means to quantify species of Aspergillus section Nigri in soil. This method 
eliminates the need for isolation and sequence identification of individual
fungal isolates, and allows for greater throughput in measuring relative
population sizes of important (i.e. mycotoxigenic) Aspergillus species within a
population of morphologically indistinguishable species.

Published 2016. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public
domain in the USA.

DOI: 10.1111/lam.12667 
PMID: 27604045 


235. Virus Evol. 2015 Dec 31;1(1):vev017. eCollection 2015.

A diverse group of small circular ssDNA viral genomes in human and non-human
primate stools.

Ng TF(1), Zhang W(2), Sachsenröder J(3), Kondov NO(4), da Costa AC(5), Vega E(6),
Holtz LR(7), Wu G(8), Wang D(9), Stine CO(10), Antonio M(11), Mulvaney US(4),
Muench MO(1), Deng X(1), Ambert-Balay K(12), Pothier P(12), Vinjé J(13), Delwart 
E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Blood Systems Research Institute, San Francisco, 270 Masonic Ave, San
Francisco, CA 94118, USA, ; Department of laboratory Medicine, University of
California at San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA. (2)Blood Systems Research
Institute, San Francisco, 270 Masonic Ave, San Francisco, CA 94118, USA, ;
Department of Microbiology, School of Medicine, Jiangsu University, Jiangsu,
Zhenjiang, China. (3)Blood Systems Research Institute, San Francisco, 270 Masonic
Ave, San Francisco, CA 94118, USA, ; Federal Institute for Risk Assessment,
Berlin, Germany. (4)Blood Systems Research Institute, San Francisco, 270 Masonic 
Ave, San Francisco, CA 94118, USA. (5)Blood Systems Research Institute, San
Francisco, 270 Masonic Ave, San Francisco, CA 94118, USA, ; Institute of Tropical
Medicine, University of Sao Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil. (6)NCIRD, Polio and
Picornavirus Laboratory Branch, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
Atlanta, GA, USA. (7)Department of Pediatrics. (8)Department of Molecular
Microbiology, and. (9)Departments of Molecular Microbiology and Pathology &
Immunology, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, USA.
(10)University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA. (11)Medical
Research Council Unit, Banjul, The Gambia. (12)National Reference Centre for
enteric viruses, Dijon University Hospital, Dijon, France and. (13)NCIRD,
National Calicivirus Laboratory, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
Atlanta, GA, USA.

Viral metagenomics sequencing of fecal samples from outbreaks of acute
gastroenteritis from the US revealed the presence of small circular ssDNA viral
genomes encoding a replication initiator protein (Rep). Viral genomes were
∼2.5 kb in length, with bi-directionally oriented Rep and capsid (Cap) encoding
genes and a stem loop structure downstream of Rep. Several genomes showed
evidence of recombination. By digital screening of an in-house virome database
(1.04 billion reads) using BLAST, we identified closely related sequences from
cases of unexplained diarrhea in France. Deep sequencing and PCR detected such
genomes in 7 of 25 US (28 percent) and 14 of 21 French outbreaks (67 percent).
One of eighty-five sporadic diarrhea cases in the Gambia was positive by PCR.
Twenty-two complete genomes were characterized showing that viruses from patients
in the same outbreaks were closely related suggesting common origins. Similar
genomes were also characterized from the stools of captive chimpanzees, a
gorilla, a black howler monkey, and a lemur that were more diverse than the human
stool-associated genomes. The name smacovirus is proposed for this monophyletic
viral clade. Possible tropism include mammalian enteric cells or ingested food
components such as infected plants. No evidence of viral amplification was found 
in immunodeficient mice orally inoculated with smacovirus-positive stool
supernatants. A role for smacoviruses in diarrhea, if any, remains to be
demonstrated.

DOI: 10.1093/ve/vev017 
PMCID: PMC5014484
PMID: 27774288 


236. Acta Medica (Hradec Kralove). 2016;59(3):75-78. doi: 10.14712/18059694.2016.94.
Epub 2016 Aug 29.

Droplet Digital PCR Analysis of GSTM1 Deletion Polymorphism in Psoriatic Subjects
Treated with Goeckerman Therapy.

Beránek M(1,)(2), Fiala Z(3), Kremláček J(4), Andrýs C(5), Hamáková K(6), Palička
V(7), Borská L(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemical Sciences, Charles University in Prague, Faculty of
Pharmacy in Hradec Králové, Hradec Králové, Czech Republic. beranek@lfhk.cuni.cz.
(2)Institute of Clinical Biochemistry and Diagnostics, Charles University
Hospital and Faculty of Medicine in Hradec Králové, Hradec Králové, Czech
Republic. beranek@lfhk.cuni.cz. (3)Institute of Hygiene and Preventive Medicine, 
Charles University in Prague, Faculty of Medicine in Hradec Králové, Hradec
Králové, Czech Republic. (4)Institute of Pathological Physiology, Charles
University in Prague, Faculty of Medicine in Hradec Králové, Hradec Králové,
Czech Republic. (5)Institute of Clinical Immunology and Allergology, Charles
University in Prague, Faculty of Medicine in Hradec Králové, Hradec Králové,
Czech Republic. (6)Clinic of Dermal and Venereal Diseases, Charles University
Hospital Hradec Králové, Hradec Králové, Czech Republic. (7)Institute of Clinical
Biochemistry and Diagnostics, Charles University Hospital and Faculty of Medicine
in Hradec Králové, Hradec Králové, Czech Republic.

Goeckerman therapy (GT) represents an effective treatment of psoriasis including 
a combination of pharmaceutical grade crude coal tar (CCT) and ultraviolet
irradiation (UV-R). Coal tar contains a mixture of polycyclic aromatic
hydrocarbons. The best known carcinogenic polyaromate - benzo[a]pyrene is
metabolized into a highly reactive benzo[a]pyrene-7,8-diol-9,10-epoxide (BPDE).
Glutathione S-transferase M1 (GSTM1) catalyses the conjugation of drugs, toxins
and products of oxidative stress with glutathione. The aim of the study is to
found possible associations between GSTM1 genotypes and the level of BPDE-DNA
adducts in 46 psoriatic patients treated with GT. For genotyping, droplet digital
PCR was applied. The GSTM1 copy number was normalized to β-globin reference gene.
In five GSTM1*1/*1 subjects, the GSTM1 to β-globin ratio moved from 0.99 to 1.03 
with a median of 1.01. GSTM1*0/*1 heterozygotes (n = 20) contained only one GSTM1
function allele which conditioned the ratio 0.47-0.53 (median 0.50). GSTM1*0/*0
individuals (n = 21) showed no amplification of the null variants because of the 
large deletion in GSTM1. BPDE-DNA concentrations ranged from 1.8 to 66.3 ng/µg
with a median of 12.3 ng/µg. GSTM1*0/*0 and GSTM1*0/*1 genotypes showed
non-significantly higher concentrations of BPDE-DNA adducts than the GSTM1*1/*1
one (12.3 and 12.4 vs 7.8 ng/µg). The non-significant relationship between
BPDE-DNA adducts and GSTM1 genotypes in psoriatic patients could be associated
with relatively low doses of CCT and short-term UV-R exposures used in GT.

DOI: 10.14712/18059694.2016.94 
PMID: 27639151 


237. J Mol Diagn. 2016 Nov;18(6):903-911. doi: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2016.07.004. Epub 2016
Sep 12.

Clinical Application of Picodroplet Digital PCR Technology for Rapid Detection of
EGFR T790M in Next-Generation Sequencing Libraries and DNA from Limited Tumor
Samples.

Borsu L(1), Intrieri J(2), Thampi L(2), Yu H(3), Riely G(3), Nafa K(2),
Chandramohan R(2), Ladanyi M(4), Arcila ME(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New
York. Electronic address: borsul@mskcc.org. (2)Department of Pathology, Memorial 
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York. (3)Department of Medicine,
Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York. (4)Department of
Pathology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York; Human
Oncology & Pathogenesis Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New
York, New York.

Although next-generation sequencing (NGS) is a robust technology for
comprehensive assessment of EGFR-mutant lung adenocarcinomas with acquired
resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors, it may not provide sufficiently rapid
and sensitive detection of the EGFR T790M mutation, the most clinically relevant 
resistance biomarker. Here, we describe a digital PCR (dPCR) assay for rapid
T790M detection on aliquots of NGS libraries prepared for comprehensive
profiling, fully maximizing broad genomic analysis on limited samples. Tumor DNAs
from patients with EGFR-mutant lung adenocarcinomas and acquired resistance to
epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors were prepared for Memorial
Sloan-Kettering-Integrated Mutation Profiling of Actionable Cancer Targets
sequencing, a hybrid capture-based assay interrogating 410 cancer-related genes. 
Precapture library aliquots were used for rapid EGFR T790M testing by dPCR, and
results were compared with NGS and locked nucleic acid-PCR Sanger sequencing
(reference high sensitivity method). Seventy resistance samples showed 99%
concordance with the reference high sensitivity method in accuracy studies. Input
as low as 2.5 ng provided a sensitivity of 1% and improved further with
increasing DNA input. dPCR on libraries required less DNA and showed better
performance than direct genomic DNA. dPCR on NGS libraries is a robust and rapid 
approach to EGFR T790M testing, allowing most economical utilization of limited
material for comprehensive assessment. The same assay can also be performed
directly on any limited DNA source and cell-free DNA.

Copyright © 2016 American Society for Investigative Pathology and the Association
for Molecular Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2016.07.004 
PMID: 27631691 


238. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol. 2016 Dec;78(6):1305-1310. Epub 2016 Oct 21.

EGFR mutation status of paired cerebrospinal fluid and plasma samples in
EGFR mutant non-small cell lung cancer with leptomeningeal metastases.

Zhao J(1), Ye X(2), Xu Y(1), Chen M(1), Zhong W(1), Sun Y(2), Yang Z(2), Zhu
G(2), Gu Y(3), Wang M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Peking Union Medical College Hospital,
Peking Union Medical College, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, No. 1
Shuaifuyuan, Dongcheng District, Beijing, 100730, China. (2)Asia and Emerging
Markets Innovative Medicine, AstraZeneca R&D, 199 Liangjing Road, Bldg 2,
Shanghai, 201203, China. (3)Asia and Emerging Markets Innovative Medicine,
AstraZeneca R&D, 199 Liangjing Road, Bldg 2, Shanghai, 201203, China.
yi.gu@astrazeneca.com. (4)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Peking Union
Medical College Hospital, Peking Union Medical College, Chinese Academy of
Medical Sciences, No. 1 Shuaifuyuan, Dongcheng District, Beijing, 100730, China. 
mengzhaowang@sina.com.

PURPOSE: Central nervous system (CNS) is the prevalent site for metastases in
epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI)-relapsed 
NSCLC patients. To understand the EGFR mutation status in paired cerebrospinal
fluid (CSF) and plasma samples after EGFR-TKI treatment failure might be useful
to guide the treatment of intra- and extracranial tumors in those patients.
METHODS: Paired CSF and plasma samples were collected from seven NSCLC patients
with CNS metastases after EGFR-TKI failure. EGFR mutations were tested by
amplification refractory mutation system (ARMS) and droplet digital PCR (ddPCR)
methods. Gefitinib concentrations were evaluated by high-performance liquid
chromatography-mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS/MS).
RESULTS: EGFR mutations were detected in all seven CSF samples, including three
of E19-Del, three of L858R and one of E19-Del&T790M by both methods. On the other
hand, majority of the matched plasma samples (5/7) were negative for EGFR
mutations by both methods. The other two plasma samples were positive for
E19-Del&T790M by ddPCR, and one of them had undetectable T790M by ARMS. Gefitinib
concentration in CSF was much lower than that in plasma (mean CSF/plasma ratio:
1.8 %).
CONCLUSIONS: After EGFR-TKI failure, majority of the NSCLC patients with CNS
metastases remained positive detection of EGFR sensitive mutations in CSF, but
much less detection in the matched plasma. Significantly low exposure of
gefitinib in CSF might explain the intracranial protection of the EGFR sensitive 
mutation positive tumor cells.

DOI: 10.1007/s00280-016-3155-y 
PMID: 27770237 


239. BMC Urol. 2016 Oct 21;16(1):62.

Genomic copy number variation association study in Caucasian patients with
nonsyndromic cryptorchidism.

Wang Y(1), Li J(2), Kolon TF(3), Olivant Fisher A(1), Figueroa TE(4), BaniHani
AH(4), Hagerty JA(4), Gonzalez R(4,)(5), Noh PH(4,)(6), Chiavacci RM(2), Harden
KR(2), Abrams DJ(2), Stabley D(1), Kim CE(2), Sol-Church K(1), Hakonarson
H(2,)(7,)(8), Devoto M(7,)(8,)(9,)(10), Barthold JS(11,)(12).

Author information: 
(1)Nemours Biomedical Research, Nemours /Alfred I. duPont Hospital for Children, 
Wilmington, DE, 19803, USA. (2)Center for Applied Genomics, The Children's
Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA. (3)Division of Urology,
The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA.
(4)Division of Urology, Nemours/Alfred I. duPont Hospital for Children,
Wilmington, DE, 19803, USA. (5)Present address: Auf der Bult Kinder- und
Jugendkrankenhaus, Hannover, Germany. (6)Present address: Division of Pediatric
Urology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(7)Division of Genetics, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia,
PA, 19104, USA. (8)Department of Pediatrics, Perelman School of Medicine,
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA. (9)Department of
Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA. (10)Department of Molecular Medicine,
Sapienza University, Rome, Italy. (11)Nemours Biomedical Research, Nemours
/Alfred I. duPont Hospital for Children, Wilmington, DE, 19803, USA.
Julia.Barthold@nemours.org. (12)Division of Urology, Nemours/Alfred I. duPont
Hospital for Children, Wilmington, DE, 19803, USA. Julia.Barthold@nemours.org.

BACKGROUND: Copy number variation (CNV) is a potential contributing factor to
many genetic diseases. Here we investigated the potential association of CNV with
nonsyndromic cryptorchidism, the most common male congenital genitourinary
defect, in a Caucasian population.
METHODS: Genome wide genotyping were performed in 559 cases and 1772 controls
(Group 1) using Illumina HumanHap550 v1, HumanHap550 v3 or Human610-Quad
platforms and in 353 cases and 1149 controls (Group 2) using the Illumina Human
OmniExpress 12v1 or Human OmniExpress 12v1-1. Signal intensity data including log
R ratio (LRR) and B allele frequency (BAF) for each single nucleotide
polymorphism (SNP) were used for CNV detection using PennCNV software. After
sample quality control, gene- and CNV-based association tests were performed
using cleaned data from Group 1 (493 cases and 1586 controls) and Group 2 (307
cases and 1102 controls) using ParseCNV software. Meta-analysis was performed
using gene-based test results as input to identify significant genes, and CNVs in
or around significant genes were identified in CNV-based association test
results. Called CNVs passing quality control and signal intensity visualization
examination were considered for validation using TaqMan CNV assays and
QuantStudio® 3D Digital PCR System.
RESULTS: The meta-analysis identified 373 genome wide significant (p < 5X10(-4)) 
genes/loci including 49 genes/loci with deletions and 324 with duplications.
Among them, 17 genes with deletion and 1 gene with duplication were identified in
CNV-based association results in both Group 1 and Group 2. Only 2 genes (NUCB2
and UPF2) containing deletions passed CNV quality control in both groups and
signal intensity visualization examination, but laboratory validation failed to
verify these deletions.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data do not support that structural variation is a major cause
of nonsyndromic cryptorchidism.

DOI: 10.1186/s12894-016-0180-4 
PMCID: PMC5073740
PMID: 27769252  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Oncotarget. 2016 Jun 21;7(25):37839-37845. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.9341.

Circulating AR copy number and outcome to enzalutamide in docetaxel-treated
metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer.

Salvi S(1), Casadio V(1), Conteduca V(2), Lolli C(2), Gurioli G(1), Martignano
F(1,)(3), Schepisi G(2), Testoni S(4), Scarpi E(4), Amadori D(2), Calistri D(1), 
Attard G(5), De Giorgi U(2).

Author information: 
(1)Biosciences Laboratory, Istituto Scientifico Romagnolo per lo Studio e la Cura
dei Tumori (IRST) IRCCS, Meldola, Italy. (2)Department of Medical Oncology,
Istituto Scientifico Romagnolo per lo Studio e la Cura dei Tumori (IRST) IRCCS,
Meldola, Italy. (3)University of Florence, Florence, Italy. (4)Unit of
Biostatistics and Clinical Trials, Istituto Scientifico Romagnolo per lo Studio e
la Cura dei Tumori (IRST) IRCCS, Meldola, Italy. (5)The Institute of Cancer
Research and The Royal Marsden, London, UK.

In the present study, we aimed to evaluate the association of circulating AR copy
number (CN) and outcome in a cohort of patients with advanced
castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) treated with enzalutamide after
docetaxel. Fifty-nine CRPC patients were evaluated. AR CN was analyzed with
real-time and digital PCR in the serum collected at starting of treatment.
Progressive disease was defined on the basis of Prostate Cancer Working Group 2
criteria. AR CN gain was found in 21 of 59 (36%) patients. Median baseline PSA,
alkaline phosphatase and lactate dehydrogenase levels were higher in the AR CN
gained group (p = 0.007, p = 0.003, p = 0.0009, respectively). Median PFS of
patients with AR CN gain was 2.4 (95%CI: 1.9-3.2) vs. 4.0 months (95%CI: 3.0-6.5)
of those with no gain (p = 0.0004). Median OS of patients with AR CN gain was 6.1
(95%CI: 3.4-8.6) vs. 14.1 months (95%CI: 8.2-20.5) of those with no gain (p =
0.0003). At multivariate analysis, PSA decline ≥ 50% and AR CN showed a
significant association with PFS (p = 0.008 and p = 0.002, respectively) and OS
(p = 0.009 and p = 0.001, respectively). These findings indicate that the
detection of circulating AR CN gain is a promising non-invasive biomarker for
outcome prediction to enzalutamide treatment in CRPC patients.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.9341 
PMCID: PMC5122353
PMID: 27191887 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared no conflicts of interest.


241. Mol Ecol Resour. 2017 Mar;17(2):221-229. doi: 10.1111/1755-0998.12619. Epub 2016 
Nov 20.

Detection limits of quantitative and digital PCR assays and their influence in
presence-absence surveys of environmental DNA.

Hunter ME(1), Dorazio RM(1), Butterfield JS(1), Meigs-Friend G(1), Nico LG(1),
Ferrante JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)U.S. Geological Survey, Wetland and Aquatic Research Center, 7920 NW 71st
Street, Gainesville, FL, 32653, USA.

A set of universal guidelines is needed to determine the limit of detection (LOD)
in PCR-based analyses of low-concentration DNA. In particular, environmental DNA 
(eDNA) studies require sensitive and reliable methods to detect rare and cryptic 
species through shed genetic material in environmental samples. Current
strategies for assessing detection limits of eDNA are either too stringent or
subjective, possibly resulting in biased estimates of species' presence. Here, a 
conservative LOD analysis grounded in analytical chemistry is proposed to correct
for overestimated DNA concentrations predominantly caused by the concentration
plateau, a nonlinear relationship between expected and measured DNA
concentrations. We have used statistical criteria to establish formal
mathematical models for both quantitative and droplet digital PCR. To assess the 
method, a new Grass Carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella) TaqMan assay was developed and
tested on both PCR platforms using eDNA in water samples. The LOD adjustment
reduced Grass Carp occupancy and detection estimates while increasing
uncertainty-indicating that caution needs to be applied to eDNA data without LOD 
correction. Compared to quantitative PCR, digital PCR had higher occurrence
estimates due to increased sensitivity and dilution of inhibitors at low
concentrations. Without accurate LOD correction, species occurrence and detection
probabilities based on eDNA estimates are prone to a source of bias that cannot
be reduced by an increase in sample size or PCR replicates. Other applications
also could benefit from a standardized LOD such as GMO food analysis and forensic
and clinical diagnostics.

Published 2016. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public
domain in the USA.

DOI: 10.1111/1755-0998.12619 
PMID: 27768244 


242. Connect Tissue Res. 2017 Jan;58(1):103-115. doi: 10.1080/03008207.2016.1247834.
Epub 2016 Oct 20.

Creating conditional dual fluorescence labeled transgenic animals for studying
function of small noncoding RNAs.

Yang K(1), Gao Y(1), Yang M(1), Xu Z(2), Chen Q(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Orthopedics , Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University
and Rhode Island Hospital , Providence , RI , USA. (2)b Department of
Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology , University of Massachusetts Medical
School , Worcester , MA , USA.

Because the function of most noncoding (nc) RNAs is unknown, Cre-lox transgenic
mice are useful tools to determine their functions in a tissue or developmental
stage-specific manner. However, the technology faces challenges because
expression of ncRNA-transgene lacks protein product. No antibody or peptide-tag
can be used to trace ncRNA expression in mouse tissues in real time. Furthermore,
transgene integration at different locus or orientations in the genome may result
in recombination of genomic fragments in the Cre-lox system. Establishing a
reliable method that can be used to determine the precise copy number and
orientation of the transgene is critical to the field. We developed a fast and
straightforward method to determine ncRNA-transgene copy number, orientation, and
insertion site in the genome. Furthermore, upon tissue-specific expression of
ncRNA, a Cre-loxP-mediated dual-fluorescence expression system facilitates
fluorescence signal switching from green to red, which enables real-time
monitoring of ncRNA expression by fluorescence signals. As proof of concept, we
demonstrate that after microRNA (miRNA)-Flox mice crossed with Col2a1-Cre mice,
miRNA transgene expression could be detected successfully by red fluorescence
signals in various cartilaginous tissues. This method of creating small ncRNA
transgenic mice facilitates both tissue-specific ncRNA expression and real-time
visualization of its expression. It is particularly suitable for in vivo studies 
of the functional roles and lineage tracing of small ncRNA.

DOI: 10.1080/03008207.2016.1247834 
PMID: 27763799 


243. Hum Gene Ther Methods. 2016 Oct;27(5):197-208.

Application of Droplet Digital PCR for Estimating Vector Copy Number States in
Stem Cell Gene Therapy.

Lin HT(1,)(2), Okumura T(2), Yatsuda Y(3), Ito S(3), Nakauchi H(1,)(4), Otsu
M(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)1 Division of Stem Cell Therapy, Center for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative
Medicine, Institute of Medical Science, University of Tokyo , Tokyo, Japan . (2)2
Division of Stem Cell Processing/Stem Cell Bank, Center for Stem Cell Biology and
Regenerative Medicine, Institute of Medical Science, University of Tokyo , Tokyo,
Japan . (3)3 Life Science Division, Bio-Rad Laboratories , Tokyo, Japan . (4)4
Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, Stanford University
School of Medicine , Stanford, California.

Stable gene transfer into target cell populations via integrating viral vectors
is widely used in stem cell gene therapy (SCGT). Accurate vector copy number
(VCN) estimation has become increasingly important. However, existing methods of 
estimation such as real-time quantitative PCR are more restricted in
practicality, especially during clinical trials, given the limited availability
of sample materials from patients. This study demonstrates the application of an 
emerging technology called droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) in estimating VCN states
in the context of SCGT. Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) derived from a
patient with X-linked chronic granulomatous disease were used as clonable target 
cells for transduction with alpharetroviral vectors harboring codon-optimized
CYBB cDNA. Precise primer-probe design followed by multiplex analysis conferred
assay specificity. Accurate estimation of per-cell VCN values was possible
without reliance on a reference standard curve. Sensitivity was high and the
dynamic range of detection was wide. Assay reliability was validated by
observation of consistent, reproducible, and distinct VCN clustering patterns for
clones of transduced iPSCs with varying numbers of transgene copies. Taken
together, use of ddPCR appears to offer a practical and robust approach to VCN
estimation with a wide range of clinical and research applications.

DOI: 10.1089/hgtb.2016.059 
PMCID: PMC5111482
PMID: 27763786 

Conflict of interest statement: Author Disclosure Y.Y. and S.I. are currently
employed by Bio-Rad Laboratories.


244. PLoS One. 2016 Oct 19;11(10):e0165023. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0165023.
eCollection 2016.

Reproducibility of Digital PCR Assays for Circulating Tumor DNA Analysis in
Advanced Breast Cancer.

Hrebien S(1), O'Leary B(1,)(2), Beaney M(1), Schiavon G(3), Fribbens C(1,)(2),
Bhambra A(2), Johnson R(2), Garcia-Murillas I(1), Turner N(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)The Breast Cancer Now Research Centre, The Institute of Cancer Research,
London, SW3 6JB, United Kingdom. (2)Breast Unit, Royal Marsden Hospital, Fulham
Road, London, SW3 6JJ, United Kingdom. (3)Translational Science, Oncology iMed,
AstraZeneca, Cambridge, CB4 0WG, United Kingdom.

Circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) analysis has the potential to allow non-invasive
analysis of tumor mutations in advanced cancer. In this study we assessed the
reproducibility of digital PCR (dPCR) assays of circulating tumor DNA in a cohort
of patients with advanced breast cancer and assessed delayed plasma processing
using cell free DNA preservative tubes. We recruited a cohort of 96 paired
samples from 71 women with advanced breast cancer who had paired blood samples
processed either immediately or delayed in preservative tubes with processing
48-72 hours after collection. Plasma DNA was analysed with multiplex digital PCR 
(mdPCR) assays for hotspot mutations in PIK3CA, ESR1 and ERBB2, and for AKT1
E17K. There was 94.8% (91/96) agreement in mutation calling between immediate and
delayed processed tubes, kappa 0.88 95% CI 0.77-0.98). Discordance in mutation
calling resulted from low allele frequency and likely stochastic effects. In
concordant samples there was high correlation in mutant copies per ml plasma (r2 
= 0.98; p<0.0001). There was elevation of total cell free plasma DNA
concentrations in 10.3% of delayed processed tubes, although overall
quantification of total cell free plasma DNA had similar prognostic effects in
immediate (HR 3.6) and delayed (HR 3.0) tubes. There was moderate agreement in
changes in allele fraction between sequential samples in quantitative mutation
tracking (r = 0.84, p = 0.0002). Delayed processing of samples using preservative
tubes allows for centralized ctDNA digital PCR mutation screening in advanced
breast cancer. The potential of preservative tubes in quantitative mutation
tracking requires further research.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0165023 
PMCID: PMC5070760
PMID: 27760227 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


245. Electrophoresis. 2017 Jan;38(2):296-304. doi: 10.1002/elps.201600309. Epub 2016
Oct 20.

A poly(dimethylsiloxane) microfluidic sheet reversibly adhered on a glass plate
for creation of emulsion droplets for droplet digital PCR.

Nakashoji Y(1), Tanaka H(1), Tsukagoshi K(1), Hashimoto M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science, Faculty of Science
and Engineering, Doshisha University, Kyotanabe, Kyoto, Japan.

A PDMS microfluidic chip with T-junction channel geometry, two inlet reservoirs, 
and one outlet reservoir was reversibly adhered on a glass plate through the
viscoelastic properties of PDMS. This formed a detachable microfluidic device for
creation of water-in-oil emulsion droplets that were used as discrete reaction
compartments for the droplet digital PCR. The PDMS/glass device could
continuously produce monodisperse droplets without leakage of fluids using a
vacuum-driven autonomous micropumping method. This droplet preparation technique 
only required evacuation of air dissolved in the PDMS before loading of oil and
aqueous phases into separate inlet reservoirs. Degassing of the PDMS chip at
approximately 300 Pa for 1.5 h in a vacuum desiccator gave 40 000 droplets in 80 
min, which corresponded to a generation frequency of up to nine droplets per
second. Over multiple runs the droplet creation was very reproducible, and the
size reproducibility of generated droplets (polydispersity of up to 4.1%) was
comparable to that acquired using other microfluidic droplet preparation
techniques. Because the PDMS chip can be peeled off the glass plate, blocked
channels can easily be fixed when they arise, and this extends the lifetime of
the chip. Single DNA molecules partitioned into the droplets were successfully
amplified by PCR. In addition, the droplet digital PCR platform allowed absolute 
quantification of low copy numbers of target DNA, and was robust against
instrumental variance.

© 2016 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/elps.201600309 
PMID: 27568642 


246. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2016;924:139-146.

Digital PCR of Genomic Rearrangements for Monitoring Circulating Tumour DNA.

Do H(1,)(2,)(3), Cameron D(4,)(5), Molania R(6,)(7), Thapa B(7,)(8), Rivalland
G(8), Mitchell PL(8), Murone C(9), John T(10,)(8), Papenfuss A(4,)(5), Dobrovic
A(11,)(12,)(13).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Genomics and Epigenomics Laboratory, Olivia Newton-John Cancer
Research Institute, Melbourne, VIC, 3084, Australia. hongdo.do@onjcri.org.au.
(2)School of Cancer Medicine, La Trobe University, Bundoora, VIC, 3084,
Australia. hongdo.do@onjcri.org.au. (3)Department of Pathology, University of
Melbourne, Parkville, VIC, 3010, Australia. hongdo.do@onjcri.org.au.
(4)Bioinformatics Division, Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research, 
Parkville, VIC, 3052, Australia. (5)Department of Medical Biology, University of 
Melbourne, Parkville, VIC, 3010, Australia. (6)Translational Genomics and
Epigenomics Laboratory, Olivia Newton-John Cancer Research Institute, Melbourne, 
VIC, 3084, Australia. (7)Department of Medicine, University of Melbourne,
Heidelberg, VIC, 3084, Australia. (8)Medical Oncology, Olivia Newton-John Cancer 
Research Institute, Austin Health, Heidelberg, VIC, 3084, Australia. (9)Tumour
Targeting Laboratory, Olivia Newton-John Cancer Research Institute, Melbourne,
Australia. (10)School of Cancer Medicine, La Trobe University, Bundoora, VIC,
3084, Australia. (11)Translational Genomics and Epigenomics Laboratory, Olivia
Newton-John Cancer Research Institute, Melbourne, VIC, 3084, Australia.
alex.dobrovic@onjcri.org.au. (12)School of Cancer Medicine, La Trobe University, 
Bundoora, VIC, 3084, Australia. alex.dobrovic@onjcri.org.au. (13)Department of
Pathology, University of Melbourne, Parkville, VIC, 3010, Australia.
alex.dobrovic@onjcri.org.au.

Identifying circulating tumour DNA (ctDNA) for monitoring of cancer therapy is
dependent on the development of readily designed, sensitive cancer-specific DNA
markers. Genomic rearrangements that are present in the vast majority of cancers 
provide such markers.Tumour DNA isolated from two fresh-frozen lung tumours
underwent whole genome sequencing. Genomic rearrangements were detected using a
new computational algorithm, GRIDSS. Four genomic rearrangements from each tumour
were chosen for further study using rearrangement-specific primers. Six of the
eight rearrangements tested were identified as tumour-specific, the remaining two
were present in the germline. ctDNA was quantified using digital PCR for the
tumour genomic rearrangements in patient blood. Interestingly, one of the
patients had no detectable ctDNA either prior to or post surgery although the
rearrangements were readily detectable in the tumour DNA.This study demonstrates 
the feasibility of using digital PCR based on genomic rearrangements for the
monitoring of minimal residual disease. In addition, whole genome sequencing
provided further information enabling therapeutic choices including the
identification of a cryptic EGFR exon 19 deletion in one patient and the
identification of a high somatic mutation load in the other patient. This
approach can be used as a model for all cancers with rearranged genomes.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-42044-8_27 
PMID: 27753035 


247. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2016;924:13-17.

Clinical Utility of Circulating Tumor DNA for Molecular Assessment and Precision 
Medicine in Pancreatic Cancer.

Takai E(1), Totoki Y(2), Nakamura H(2), Kato M(2), Shibata T(3), Yachida S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cancer Genomics, National Cancer Center Research Institute, Tokyo,
Japan. ertakai@ncc.go.jp. (2)Division of Cancer Genomics, National Cancer Center 
Research Institute, Tokyo, Japan. (3)Laboratory of Molecular Medicine, Human
Genome Center, The Institute of Medical Science, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, 
Japan.

Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remains one of the most lethal
malignancies. The genomic landscape of the PDAC genome features four frequently
mutated genes (KRAS, CDKN2A, TP53, and SMAD4) and dozens of candidate driver
genes altered at low frequency, including potential clinical targets. Circulating
cell-free DNA (cfDNA) is a promising resource to detect molecular characteristics
of tumors, supporting the concept of "liquid biopsy".We determined the mutational
status of KRAS in plasma cfDNA using multiplex droplet digital PCR in 259
patients with PDAC, retrospectively. Furthermore, we constructed a novel modified
SureSelect-KAPA-Illumina platform and an original panel of 60 genes. We then
performed targeted deep sequencing of cfDNA in 48 patients who had ≥1 % mutant
allele frequencies of KRAS in plasma cfDNA.Droplet digital PCR detected KRAS
mutations in plasma cfDNA in 63 of 107 (58.9 %) patients with inoperable tumors. 
Importantly, potentially targetable somatic mutations were identified in 14 of 48
patients (29.2 %) examined by cfDNA sequencing.Our two-step approach with plasma 
cfDNA, combining droplet digital PCR and targeted deep sequencing, is a feasible 
clinical approach. Assessment of mutations in plasma cfDNA may provide a new
diagnostic tool, assisting decisions for optimal therapeutic strategies for PDAC 
patients.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-42044-8_3 
PMID: 27753011 


248. Beijing Da Xue Xue Bao. 2016 Oct 18;48(5):894-899.

[A preliminary study for the effect of nano hydroxyapatite on human
adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells mixture 3D bio-printing].

[Article in Chinese]

Song Y(1), Wang XF(1), Wang YG(1), Dong F(1), Lv PJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center of Digital Dentistry, Department of Prosthodontics, Peking University
School and Hospital of Stomatology & National Engineering Laboratory for Digital 
and Material Technology of Stomatology & Beijing Key Laboratory of Digital
Stomatology, Research Center of Engineering and Technology for Digital Dentistry 
of Ministry of Health, Beijing 100081, China.

OBJECTIVE: To study the effect of nano hydroxyapatite on human adipose-derived
mesenchymal stem cells(hASCs) mixture 3D bio-printing for cells' proliferation
and osteogenesis.
METHODS: P5 hASCs were used as seed cells, 10 g/L nano hydroxyapatite was added
into the cell-sodium alginate-gelatin mixture (concentration: 20 g/L sodium
alginate, 80 g/L gelatin; cell density: 1×10(6)/mL), then the mixture was printed
by 3D bio-printer as the experimental group. And the cell-sodium alginate-gelatin
mixture without nano hydroxyapatite was printed as the control group.
Respectively, both the experimental and control groups were detected by
microscope, CCK-8, Western blot and PCR at certain time pointsafter being
printed, whose cells' proliferation and osteogenic differentiation were analyzed.
RESULTS: The microscopic observation and CCK-8 results showed that the cells of
the experimental group and the control group both had a good proliferation 24 h
and 7 d after being printed. The Western blot results showed that 14 d after
printing, the expression of Runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) had no
statistical difference between the experimental group and control group. The PCR 
results showed that 14 d after printing, the expression of osteogenesis-related
genes (RUNX2, osterix, and osteocalcin) was significantly higher in the
experimental group than in the control group.
CONCLUSION: Nano hydroxyapatite can increase osteogenic differentiation of the
hASCs mixture after bio-printing, in which the cells still have a good
proliferation.


PMID: 27752177 


249. Beijing Da Xue Xue Bao. 2016 Oct 18;48(5):878-883.

[Impact of different degree pulpitis on cell proliferation and osteoblastic
differentiation of dental pulp stem cell in Beagle immature premolars].

[Article in Chinese]

Ling L(1), Zhao YM(1), Ge LH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatric Dentistry, Peking University School and Hospital of
Stomatology & National Engineering Laboratory for Digital and Material Technology
of Stomatology & Beijing Key Laboratory of Digital Stomatology, Beijing 100081,
China.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the proliferation and osteoblastic differentiation of
dental pulp stem cell (DPSC) isolated from normal and inflamed pulps of different
degrees in Beagle immature premolars, and provide evidence for the use of
inflammatory DPSC (IDPSC).
METHODS: This study evaluated 14 Beagle's young premolars (21 roots). In the
experiment group, irreversible pulpitis was induced by pulp exposure and the
inflamed pulps were extracted 2 weeks and 6 weeks after the pulp chamber
opening.For the control group, normal pulps were extracted immediately after the 
exposure. HE staining and real-time PCR were performed to confirm the
inflammation. The cells were isolated from the inflamed and normal pulps (IDPSC
and DPSC). Cell proliferation and osteoblastic differentiation potentials of the 
two cells were compared.
RESULTS: Inflammation cells infiltration was observed in the inflamed pulps by HE
staining. The expression of inflammatory factor was much higher in the 6 week
inflamed pulp. IDPSC had higher potential of cell proliferation and osteoblastic 
differentiation potentials. Furthermore, the osteoblastic differentiation
potentials of IDPSC from 2 week inflamed pulp were higher than those from 6 week 
inflamed pulp.
CONCLUSION: The potential of cell proliferation and osteoblastic differentiation 
of DPSC was enhanced at early stage of irreversible pulpitis, and reduced at late
stage in Beagle immature premolars.


PMID: 27752174 


250. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 2017 Jan-Feb;35(1):113-121. Epub 2016 Oct 7.

Characterisation of peripheral blood mononuclear cell microRNA in early onset
psoriatic arthritis.

Ciancio G(1), Ferracin M(2), Saccenti E(3), Bagnari V(4), Farina I(4), Furini
F(4), Galuppi E(4), Zagatti B(3), Trotta F(4), Negrini M(3), Govoni M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Rheumatology Unit, Department of Medical Sciences, University of Ferrara and
Sant'Anna University Hospital, Ferrara, Italy. g.ciancio@ospfe.it. (2)Department 
of Experimental, Diagnostic and Specialty Medicine, DIMES, University of Bologna,
Italy. (3)Department of Morphology, Surgery and Experimental Medicine and
Laboratory for Technologies of Advanced Therapies (LTTA), University of Ferrara, 
Italy. (4)Rheumatology Unit, Department of Medical Sciences, University of
Ferrara and Sant'Anna University Hospital, Ferrara, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the micro-RNA (miRNA) expression profile in patients with
early psoriatic arthritis (PsA) in order to assess the role of miRNAs as
potential PsA biomarkers.
METHODS: The expression of 723 mature miRNAs in peripheral blood mononuclear
cells of early PsA patients in comparison with early-rheumatoid arthritis (ERA)
patients and healthy controls (HC) was evaluated using a miRNA microarray. All
patients had active disease and were naïve from treatment. The results were
validated for a specific miRNA (miR-21-5p) in the entire series of patients plus 
an additional group of early PsA, ERA and HC using droplet digital PCR.
RESULTS: In PsA, microarray analysis revealed a distinct pattern of 19 (vs. HC)
and 48 (vs. ERA) deregulated miRNAs (p<0.05). The significant up-regulation of
miR-21-5p both in early PsA and in ERA in comparison with HC was validated and
confirmed. In PsA, miR-21-5p was found significantly down regulated after 12
weeks of therapy, which significantly correlated with the reduction of DAPSA
score.
CONCLUSIONS: In early PsA, a 19- (vs. HC) and 48- (vs. ERA) miRNA signature was
identified. A differential expression of miRNAs in patients with active disease
makes them attractive biomarkers of psoriatic disease. MiR-21-5p was found
up-regulated both in early PsA and ERA, a finding which highlights its role in
the inflammatory process in general and its potential role as a therapeutic
target in different inflammatory disorders. A potential role of miR-21-5p as a
response to treatment biomarker in early PsA has been identified.


PMID: 27749230 


251. Plant J. 2017 Jan;89(2):407-415. doi: 10.1111/tpj.13395. Epub 2017 Jan 30.

Investigating the mechanisms of glyphosate resistance in goosegrass (Eleusine
indica (L.) Gaertn.) by RNA sequencing technology.

Chen J(1), Huang H(1), Wei S(1), Huang Z(1), Wang X(1), Zhang C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Weed and Rodent Biology and Management, Institute of Plant
Protection, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing, 100193, China.

Glyphosate is an important non-selective herbicide that is in common use
worldwide. However, evolved glyphosate-resistant (GR) weeds significantly affect 
crop yields. Unfortunately, the mechanisms underlying resistance in GR weeds,
such as goosegrass (Eleusine indica (L.) Gaertn.), an annual weed found
worldwide, have not been fully elucidated. In this study, transcriptome analysis 
was conducted to further assess the potential mechanisms of glyphosate resistance
in goosegrass. The RNA sequencing libraries generated 24 597 462 clean reads. De 
novo assembly analysis produced 48 852 UniGenes with an average length of 847 bp.
All UniGenes were annotated using seven databases. Sixteen candidate
differentially expressed genes selected by digital gene expression analysis were 
validated by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). Among these UniGenes, the
EPSPS and PFK genes were constitutively up-regulated in resistant (R) individuals
and showed a higher copy number than that in susceptible (S) individuals. The
expressions of four UniGenes relevant to photosynthesis were inhibited by
glyphosate in S individuals, and this toxic response was confirmed by gas
exchange analysis. Two UniGenes annotated as glutathione transferase (GST) were
constitutively up-regulated in R individuals, and were induced by glyphosate both
in R and S. In addition, the GST activities in R individuals were higher than in 
S. Our research confirmed that two UniGenes (PFK, EPSPS) were strongly associated
with target resistance, and two GST-annotated UniGenes may play a role in
metabolic glyphosate resistance in goosegrass.

© 2016 The Authors The Plant Journal © 2016 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/tpj.13395 
PMID: 27743420 


252. Sci Rep. 2016 Oct 14;6:35451. doi: 10.1038/srep35451.

Multiplex quantification of four DNA targets in one reaction with Bio-Rad droplet
digital PCR system for GMO detection.

Dobnik D(1), Štebih D(1), Blejec A(1), Morisset D(1), Žel J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Systems Biology, National Institute of
Biology, Večna pot 111, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia.

The advantages of the digital PCR technology are already well documented until
now. One way to achieve better cost efficiency of the technique is to use it in a
multiplexing strategy. Droplet digital PCR platforms, which include two
fluorescence filters, support at least duplex reactions and with some
developments and optimization higher multiplexing is possible. The present study 
not only shows a development of multiplex assays in droplet digital PCR, but also
presents a first thorough evaluation of several parameters in such multiplex
digital PCR. Two 4-plex assays were developed for quantification of 8 different
DNA targets (7 genetically modified maize events and maize endogene). Per assay, 
two of the targets were labelled with one fluorophore and two with another. As
current analysis software does not support analysis of more than duplex, a new R-
and Shiny-based web application analysis tool (http://bit.ly/ddPCRmulti) was
developed that automates the analysis of 4-plex results. In conclusion, the two
developed multiplex assays are suitable for quantification of GMO maize events
and the same approach can be used in any other field with a need for accurate and
reliable quantification of multiple DNA targets.

DOI: 10.1038/srep35451 
PMCID: PMC5064307
PMID: 27739510 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare the following competing
financial interest: the chemicals and consumables for the conducted experiments
were provided by Bio-Rad, who sells and markets the QX100/200 Droplet Digital PCR
System.


253. Mod Pathol. 2017 Feb;30(2):204-216. doi: 10.1038/modpathol.2016.177. Epub 2016
Oct 14.

MicroRNA profiling of low-grade glial and glioneuronal tumors shows an
independent role for cluster 14q32.31 member miR-487b.

Ames HM(1), Yuan M(1), Vizcaíno MA(1,)(2), Yu W(3), Rodriguez FJ(1,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD, USA. (2)Department of Cellular and Tissue Biology, Universidad
Nacional Autónoma de México, Mexico City, DF, USA. (3)Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive
Cancer Center, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.

Low-grade (WHO I-II) gliomas and glioneuronal tumors represent the most frequent 
primary tumors of the central nervous system in children. They often have a good 
prognosis following total resection, however they can create many neurological
complications due to mass effect, and may be difficult to resect depending on
anatomic location. MicroRNAs have been identified as molecular regulators of
protein expression/translation that can repress multiple mRNAs concurrently
through base pairing, and have an important role in cancer, including brain
tumors. Using the NanoString digital counting system, we analyzed the expression 
levels of 800 microRNAs in nine low-grade glial and glioneuronal tumor types
(n=45). A set of 61 of these microRNAs were differentially expressed in tumors
compared with the brain, and several showed levels varying by tumor type. The
expression differences were more accentuated in subependymal giant cell
astrocytoma, compared with other groups, and demonstrated the highest degree of
microRNA repression validated by RT-PCR, including miR-129-2-3p, miR-219-5p,
miR-338-3p, miR-487b, miR-885-5p, and miR-323a-3p. Conversely, miR-4488 and
miR-1246 were overexpressed in dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumors compared
with the brain and other tumors. The cluster 14q32.31 member miR-487b was
variably under-expressed in pediatric glioma lines compared with human neural
stem cells. Overexpression of miR-487b in a pediatric glioma cell line (KNS42)
using lentiviral vectors led to a decrease in colony formation in soft agar (30%)
(P<0.05), and decreased expression of known predicted targets PROM1 and Nestin
(but not WNT5A). miR-487b overexpression had no significant effect on cell
growth, proliferation, sensitivity to temozolomide, migration, or invasion. In
summary, microRNA regulation appears to have a role in the biology of glial and
glioneuronal tumor subtypes, a finding that deserves further investigation.

DOI: 10.1038/modpathol.2016.177 
PMCID: PMC5288128 [Available on 2017-04-14]
PMID: 27739438 


254. Vet World. 2016 Sep;9(9):935-939. Epub 2016 Sep 3.

Semi-quantitative digital analysis of polymerase chain reaction-electrophoresis
gel: Potential applications in low-income veterinary laboratories.

Antiabong JF(1), Ngoepe MG(2), Abechi AS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Microbiology, School of Biological Sciences, Flinders 
University SA, Bedford Park, 5042, Australia; Department of Applied
Biotechnology, National Veterinary Research Institute, Nigeria. (2)Onderstepoort 
Biological Products, Onderstepoort, Pretoria, 0110, South Africa. (3)Department
of Applied Biotechnology, National Veterinary Research Institute, Nigeria.

AIM: The interpretation of conventional polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay
results is often limited to either positive or negative (non-detectable). The
more robust quantitative PCR (qPCR) method is mostly reserved for quantitation
studies and not a readily accessible technology in laboratories across developing
nations. The aim of this study was to evaluate a semi-quantitative method for
conventional PCR amplicons using digital image analysis of electrophoretic gel.
The potential applications are also discussed.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study describes standard conditions for the digital
image analysis of PCR amplicons using the freely available ImageJ software and
confirmed using the qPCR assay.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: Comparison of ImageJ analysis of PCR-electrophoresis gel 
and qPCR methods showed similar trends in the Fusobacterium necrophorum DNA
concentration associated with healthy and periodontal disease infected wallabies 
(p≤0.03). Based on these empirical data, this study adds descriptive attributes
("more" or "less") to the interpretation of conventional PCR results. The
potential applications in low-income veterinary laboratories are suggested, and
guidelines for the adoption of the method are also highlighted.

DOI: 10.14202/vetworld.2016.935-939 
PMCID: PMC5057030
PMID: 27733792 


255. Eur Urol. 2017 Apr;71(4):680-687. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2016.08.012. Epub 2016
Oct 10.

The Detection of Androgen Receptor Splice Variant 7 in Plasma-derived Exosomal
RNA Strongly Predicts Resistance to Hormonal Therapy in Metastatic Prostate
Cancer Patients.

Del Re M(1), Biasco E(2), Crucitta S(3), Derosa L(2), Rofi E(3), Orlandini C(2), 
Miccoli M(4), Galli L(2), Falcone A(2), Jenster GW(5), van Schaik RH(6), Danesi
R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Pharmacology and Pharmacogenetics Unit, Department of Clinical and
Experimental Medicine, University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy. Electronic address:
marzia.delre@gmail.com. (2)Medical Oncology Unit, Department of Translational
Research and New Technologies in Medicine, University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy.
(3)Clinical Pharmacology and Pharmacogenetics Unit, Department of Clinical and
Experimental Medicine, University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy. (4)Department of Clinical
and Experimental Medicine, University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy. (5)Department of
Urology, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Department of Clinical Chemistry, Erasmus University Medical Center,
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: The androgen receptor splice variant 7 (AR-V7) is associated with
resistance to hormonal therapy in castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC).
Due to limitations of the methods available for AR-V7 analysis, the
identification of a reliable detection method may facilitate the use of this
biomarker in clinical practice.
OBJECTIVE: To confirm AR-V7 as a predictor of resistance to hormonal therapy and 
develop a new approach to assess AR-V7 by highly sensitive digital droplet
polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR) in plasma-derived exosomal RNA.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Plasma samples were collected from 36 CRPC
patients before they began second-line hormonal treatment. Exosomes were isolated
and RNA extracted for analysis of AR-V7 by ddPCR.
OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: The absolute target gene
concentration as copies per milliliter (copies/ml) was determined by ddPCR.
Statistical analyses were performed with SPSS software (IBM Corp., Armonk, NY,
USA).
RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: A total of 26 patients received abiraterone and 10
enzalutamide; 39% of patients were found to be AR-V7 positive (AR-V7(+)). Median 
progression-free survival was significantly longer in AR-V7 negative (AR-V7(-))
versus AR-V7(+) patients (20 vs 3 mo; p<0.001). Overall survival was
significantly shorter in AR-V7(+) participants at baseline compared with AR-V7(-)
participants (8 mo vs not reached; p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that plasma-derived exosomal RNA is a
reliable source of AR-V7 that can be detected sensitively by ddPCR assay. We also
showed that resistance to hormonal therapy may be predicted by AR-V7, making it a
clinically relevant biomarker.
PATIENT SUMMARY: We report a first study on a method for androgen receptor splice
variant 7 (AR-V7) detection in RNA extracted from cancer cell vesicles released
in blood. Results confirmed the role of AR-V7 as a predictive biomarker of
resistance to hormonal therapy. Our assay showed that vesicles are a reliable
source of AR-V7 RNA and that the method is fast, highly sensitive, and
affordable.

Copyright © 2016 European Association of Urology. Published by Elsevier B.V. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2016.08.012 
PMID: 27733296 


256. BMC Bioinformatics. 2016 Oct 12;17(1):421.

Extending digital PCR analysis by modelling quantification cycle data.

Wilson PJ(1), Ellison SL(2).

Author information: 
(1)LGC, Queens Road, Teddington, Middlesex, TW11 0LY, UK.
philip.wilson@lgcgroup.com. (2)LGC, Queens Road, Teddington, Middlesex, TW11 0LY,
UK.

BACKGROUND: Digital PCR (dPCR) is a technique for estimating the concentration of
a target nucleic acid by loading a sample into a large number of partitions,
amplifying the target and using a fluorescent marker to identify which partitions
contain the target. The standard analysis uses only the proportion of partitions 
containing target to estimate the concentration and depends on the assumption
that the initial distribution of molecules in partitions is Poisson. In this
paper we describe a way to extend such analysis using the quantification cycle
(Cq) data that may also be available, but rather than assuming the Poisson
distribution the more general Conway-Maxwell-Poisson distribution is used
instead.
RESULTS: A software package for the open source language R has been created for
performing the analysis. This was used to validate the method by analysing Cq
data from dPCR experiments involving 3 types of DNA (attenuated, virulent and
plasmid) at 3 concentrations. Results indicate some deviation from the Poisson
distribution, which is strongest for the virulent DNA sample. Theoretical
calculations indicate that the deviation from the Poisson distribution results in
a bias of around 5 % for the analysed data if the standard analysis is used, but 
that it could be larger for higher concentrations. Compared to the estimates of
subsequent efficiency, the estimates of 1st cycle efficiency are much lower for
the virulent DNA, moderately lower for the attenuated DNA and close for the
plasmid DNA. Further method validation using simulated data gave results closer
to the true values and with lower standard deviations than the standard method,
for concentrations up to approximately 2.5 copies/partition.
CONCLUSIONS: The Cq-based method is effective at estimating DNA concentration and
is not seriously affected by data issues such as outliers and moderately
non-linear trends. The data analysis suggests that the Poisson assumption of the 
standard approach does lead to a bias that is fairly small, though more research 
is needed. Estimates of the 1st cycle efficiency being lower than estimates of
the subsequent efficiency may indicate samples that are mixtures of
single-stranded and double-stranded DNA. The model can reduce or eliminate the
resulting bias.

DOI: 10.1186/s12859-016-1275-3 
PMCID: PMC5062887
PMID: 27733121 


257. Cytogenet Genome Res. 2016;149(4):290-296. Epub 2016 Oct 12.

Nucleolar Dominance and Repression of 45S Ribosomal RNA Genes in Hybrids between 
Xenopus borealis and X. muelleri (2n = 36).

Maciak S(1), Michalak K, Kale SD, Michalak P.

Author information: 
(1)Biocomplexity Institute, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, Va., USA.

Nucleolar dominance is a dramatic disruption in the formation of nucleoli and the
expression of ribosomal RNA (rRNA) genes, characteristic of some plant and animal
hybrids. Here, we report that F1 hybrids produced from reciprocal crosses between
2 sister species of Xenopus clawed frogs, X. muelleri and X. borealis, undergo
nucleolar dominance somewhat distinct from a pattern previously reported in
hybrids between phylogenetically more distant Xenopus species. Patterns of
nucleolar development, 45S rRNA expression, and gene copy inheritance were
investigated using a combination of immunostaining, pyrosequencing, droplet
digital PCR, flow cytometry, and epigenetic inhibition. In X. muelleri × X.
borealis hybrids, typically only 1 nucleolus is formed, and 45S rRNA genes are
predominantly expressed from 1 progenitor's alleles, X. muelleri, regardless of
the cross-direction. These changes are accompanied by an extensive (∼80%) loss of
rRNA gene copies in the hybrids relative to their parents, with the
transcriptionally underdominant variant (X. borealis) being preferentially lost. 
Chemical treatment of hybrid larvae with a histone deacetylase inhibitor resulted
in a partial derepression of the underdominant variant. Together, these
observations shed light on the genetic and epigenetic basis of nucleolar
dominance as an underappreciated manifestation of genetic conflicts within a
hybrid genome.

© 2016 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000450665 
PMID: 27728911  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Lab Chip. 2016 Oct 5;16(20):3866-3884.

Polymerase chain reaction in microfluidic devices.

Ahrberg CD(1), Manz A(2), Chung BG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Sogang University, Seoul, Korea.
bchung@sogang.ac.kr. (2)Microfluidics group, KIST-Europe, Saarbrücken, Germany
and Mechanotronics Department, Universität des Saarlandes, Saarbrücken, Germany.

The invention of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) has caused a revolution in
molecular biology, giving access to a method of amplifying deoxyribonucleic acid 
(DNA) molecules across several orders of magnitude. Since the first application
of PCR in a microfluidic device was developed in 1998, an increasing number of
researchers have continued the development of microfluidic PCR systems. In this
review, we introduce recent developments in microfluidic-based space and time
domain devices as well as discuss various designs integrated with multiple
functions for sample preparation and detection. The development of isothermal
nucleic acid amplification and digital PCR microfluidic devices within the last
five years is also highlighted. Furthermore, we introduce various commercial
microfluidic PCR devices.

DOI: 10.1039/c6lc00984k 
PMID: 27713993 


259. F1000Res. 2016 Jun 17;5:1411. eCollection 2016.

ddpcr: an R package and web application for analysis of droplet digital PCR data.

Attali D(1), Bidshahri R(2), Haynes C(2), Bryan J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Bioinformatics Training Program, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
Canada; Michael Smith Laboratories, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
Canada. (2)Michael Smith Laboratories, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
Canada; Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, Canada. (3)Michael Smith Laboratories, University of British
Columbia, Vancouver, Canada; Department of Statistics, University of British
Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.

Droplet digital polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR) is a novel platform for exact
quantification of DNA which holds great promise in clinical diagnostics. It is
increasingly popular due to its digital nature, which provides more accurate
quantification and higher sensitivity than traditional real-time PCR. However,
clinical adoption has been slowed in part by the lack of software tools available
for analyzing ddPCR data. Here, we present ddpcr - a new R package for ddPCR
visualization and analysis. In addition, ddpcr includes a web application
(powered by the Shiny R package) that allows users to analyze ddPCR data using an
interactive graphical interface.

DOI: 10.12688/f1000research.9022.1 
PMCID: PMC5031129
PMID: 27703666 

Conflict of interest statement: No competing interests were disclosed.


260. JCI Insight. 2016 Jun 2;1(8):e86646.

Quantitation of circulating satellite RNAs in pancreatic cancer patients.

Kishikawa T(1), Otsuka M(2), Yoshikawa T(1), Ohno M(1), Yamamoto K(1), Yamamoto
N(1), Kotani A(3), Koike K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of
Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan. (2)Department of Gastroenterology, Graduate School of
Medicine, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.; Precursory Research for
Embryonic Science and Technology (PRESTO), Japan Science and Technology Agency
(JST), Kawaguchi, Saitama, Japan. (3)Precursory Research for Embryonic Science
and Technology (PRESTO), Japan Science and Technology Agency (JST), Kawaguchi,
Saitama, Japan.; Division of Hematological Malignancy, The Institute of Medical
Sciences, Tokai University, Isehara, Kanagawa, Japan.

Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (Pdac) is a malignancy with a poor prognosis due
to difficulties in early detection. Although promising biomarkers are
increasingly reported, such methods are not yet easy to apply clinically, mainly 
due to their low reproducibility or technical difficulties. In this study, we
developed a convenient and sensitive method for quantifying aberrantly expressed 
satellite repeat RNAs in sera, which can be used to efficiently detect patients
with Pdac. Here, we introduce a Tandem Repeat Amplification by nuclease
Protection (TRAP) method combined with droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) to detect
human satellite II (HSATII) RNAs, which are specifically expressed in human Pdacs
at greater levels than normal tissues but are difficult to measure due to their
repetitive sequences and irregularities. HSATII RNA core sequence levels in sera 
were significantly higher in Pdac patients compared with noncancer patients
(median copy number: 14.75 and 3.17 per μl in the training set and 17.35 and 2.9 
in the validation set, respectively). In addition, patients with intraductal
papillary mucinous neoplasm (IPMN), a precancerous lesion of Pdac, could also be 
efficiently detected. This method can be routinely applied to screen patients
with Pdac and high-risk patients, facilitating the development of preventive
medicine for this disease.

DOI: 10.1172/jci.insight.86646 
PMCID: PMC5033942
PMID: 27699267 


261. J Cancer. 2016 Sep 13;7(13):1907-1914. eCollection 2016.

Detecting Circulating Tumor DNA in Hepatocellular Carcinoma Patients Using
Droplet Digital PCR Is Feasible and Reflects Intratumoral Heterogeneity.

Huang A(1), Zhang X(1), Zhou SL(1), Cao Y(2), Huang XW(1), Fan J(3), Yang XR(1), 
Zhou J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Liver Surgery Department, Liver Cancer Institute, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan
University. (2)Cancer Research Institute, Central South University. (3)Liver
Surgery Department, Liver Cancer Institute, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University;
Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai, No.130, Dong'an Rd,
200032, China. (4)Liver Surgery Department, Liver Cancer Institute, Zhongshan
Hospital, Fudan University; State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering Fudan
University, No.220, Handan Rd, Shanghai, 200433, China.

PURPOSE: Circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) is increasingly recognized as liquid
biopsy to profile tumor genome. Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) is a highly sensitive
and easily operable platform for mutant detection. Here, we tried to detect ctDNA
in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients using ddPCR.
METHODS: Studies sequencing the genome of HCCs and COSMIC (Catalogue of Somatic
Mutations in Cancer) database were reviewed to identify hotspot mutations.
Circulating cell-free DNAs (cfDNAs) extracted from 1 ml preoperative plasma
sample were analyzed to detect circulating mutants using ddPCR. The DNAs from
matched tumor and adjacent liver tissues or peripheral blood mononuclear cells
(PBMCs) were sequenced to identify the origin of circulating mutants.
RESULTS: Forty-eight HCC patients were enrolled and four gene loci, TP53
(c.747G>T), CTNNB1 (c.121A>G, c.133T>C), and TERT (c.1-124C>T) were chosen as
targets for ddPCR assay. Serial dilution demonstrated the detection limit of
ddPCR to be 0.01%. Twenty-seven patients (56.3%, 27/48) were found to have at
least one kind of circulating mutants, with the mutant allele frequency ranging
from 0.33% to 23.7%. Six patients (22.2%, 6/27) also had matched mutants in tumor
tissues while none of the mutants were detected in adjacent liver tissues or
PBMCs in all patients, which excluded the nonneoplastic origin of these
circulating mutants and qualified them as ctDNA.
CONCLUSIONS: ctDNA could be readily detected in HCC patients by targeting hotspot
mutations using ddPCR and might reflect intratumoral heterogeneity. ctDNA
detecting may serve as a promising liquid biopsy in HCC management.

DOI: 10.7150/jca.15823 
PMCID: PMC5039376
PMID: 27698932 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interest exists.


262. Ther Adv Hematol. 2016 Oct;7(5):237-251. Epub 2016 Jul 15.

Current developments in molecular monitoring in chronic myeloid leukemia.

Marum JE(1), Branford S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Cancer Biology, SA Pathology, Adelaide, Australia.

Molecular monitoring plays an essential role in the clinical management of
chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients, and now guides clinical decision making.
Quantitative reverse-transcriptase-polymerase-chain-reaction (qRT-PCR) assessment
of BCR-ABL1 transcript levels has become the standard of care protocol in CML.
However, further developments are required to assess leukemic burden more
efficiently, monitor minimal residual disease (MRD), detect mutations that drive 
resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy and identify predictors of 
response to TKI therapy. Cartridge-based BCR-ABL1 quantitation, digital PCR and
next generation sequencing are examples of technologies which are currently being
explored, evaluated and translated into the clinic. Here we review the emerging
molecular methods/technologies currently being developed to advance molecular
monitoring in CML.

DOI: 10.1177/2040620716657994 
PMCID: PMC5026293
PMID: 27695615 

Conflict of interest statement: SB: Consultant to Cepheid, Advisory Board Member 
for Qiagen and Novartis. Honoraria and research funding from Novartis. Honoraria 
from Bristol Myers-Squibb. Research funding from Ariad. JM has no conflict of
interest to declare.


263. J Clin Virol. 2016 Nov;84:27-31. doi: 10.1016/j.jcv.2016.09.009. Epub 2016 Sep
23.

Performance of a real-time PCR-based approach and droplet digital PCR in
detecting human parechovirus type 3 RNA.

Aizawa Y(1), Koyama A(2), Ishihara T(2), Onodera O(2), Saitoh A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Niigata University Graduate School of Medical and
Dental Sciences, Niigata, Japan. (2)Department of Molecular Neuroscience, Brain
Research Institute, Niigata University, Niigata, Japan. (3)Department of
Pediatrics, Niigata University Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences,
Niigata, Japan. Electronic address: asaitoh@med.niigata-u.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: Human parechovirus type 3 (HPeV3) is an emerging virus that causes
sepsis and meningoencephalitis in neonates and young infants. Correct diagnosis
of HPeV3 infection is critical in determining appropriate management and
predicting patients' clinical course. Real-time reverse transcription PCR
(RT-PCR) analysis of serum and/or cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) has been used to
diagnose HPeV3 infection; however, the assay detection limits have not been fully
evaluated.
OBJECTIVES: We tested the hypothesis that droplet digital RT-PCR (RT-ddPCR)-a
novel technique that precisely quantitates low-copy target genes by diluting and 
partitioning samples into compartments-increases the detection rate of HPeV3 RNA 
as compared with real-time RT-PCR.
STUDY DESIGN: Using samples with predetermined HPeV3 copy numbers, we evaluated
one-step and two-step RT-ddPCR. Then, we tested two-step RT-ddPCR and real-time
RT-PCR, using clinical samples with low copy numbers. Finally, we used two-step
RT-ddPCR to evaluate clinical samples obtained from HPeV3-infected patients with 
positive serum but negative CSF, as determined by real-time RT-PCR.
RESULTS: Two-step RT-ddPCR was less variable and more specific than one-step
RT-ddPCR. Two-step RT-ddPCR detected HPeV3 RNA in all six CSF samples; four
samples (67%) were reproducibly positive and the other two samples (33%) were
positive at least once in four replicates. Finally, no nonspecific droplet was
positive by two-step RT-ddPCR.
CONCLUSIONS: Two-step RT-ddPCR may enhance the rate of HPeV3 RNA detection from
samples with low viral loads, thereby improving diagnosis and management of
HPeV3-infected patients.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcv.2016.09.009 
PMID: 27690140 


264. Sci Rep. 2016 Sep 30;6:34554. doi: 10.1038/srep34554.

Comparison of standard, quantitative and digital PCR in the detection of
enterotoxigenic Bacteroides fragilis.

Purcell RV(1), Pearson J(2), Frizelle FA(1), Keenan JI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Otago, 2 Riccarton Avenue, PO Box 4345,
Christchurch 8140, New Zealand. (2)Department of Population Health,University of 
Otago, 2 Riccarton Avenue,PO Box 4345,Christchurch 8140, New Zealand.

Gut colonization with enterotoxigenic Bacteroides fragilis (ETBF) appears to be
associated with the development of colorectal cancer. However, differences in
carriage rates are seen with various testing methods and sampling sites. We
compared standard PCR, SYBR green and TaqMan quantitative PCR (qPCR) and digital 
PCR (dPCR) in detecting the B. fragilis toxin (bft) gene from cultured ETBF, and 
from matched luminal and faecal stool samples from 19 colorectal cancer patients.
Bland-Altman analysis found that all three quantitative methods performed
comparably in detecting bft from purified bacterial DNA, with the same limits of 
detection (<1 copy/μl). However, SYBR qPCR under-performed compared to TaqMan
qPCR and dPCR in detecting bft in clinical stool samples; 13/38 samples were
reported positive by SYBR, compared to 35 and 36 samples by TaqMan and dPCR,
respectively. TaqMan qPCR and dPCR gave bft copy numbers that were 48-fold and
75-fold higher for the same samples than SYBR qPCR, respectively (p < 0.001). For
samples that were bft-positive in both fecal and luminal stools, there was no
difference in relative abundance between the sites, by any method tested. From
our findings, we recommend the use of TaqMan qPCR as the preferred method to
detect ETBF from clinical stool samples.

DOI: 10.1038/srep34554 
PMCID: PMC5043350
PMID: 27686415 


265. Oncotarget. 2016 Nov 8;7(45):72593-72607. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.12241.

Identification of miR-30b-3p and miR-30d-5p as direct regulators of androgen
receptor signaling in prostate cancer by complementary functional microRNA
library screening.

Kumar B(1), Khaleghzadegan S(1), Mears B(1), Hatano K(1), Kudrolli TA(1),
Chowdhury WH(1), Yeater DB(1), Ewing CM(1), Luo J(1), Isaacs WB(1,)(2),
Marchionni L(2), Lupold SE(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)The James Buchanan Brady Urologic Institute and Department of Urology, Johns
Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA. (2)The department of Oncology,
Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, School of Medicine, Johns Hopkins
University, Baltimore, MD, USA.

The Androgen Receptor (AR) plays a key role in prostate biology and in the
progression of prostate cancer (PCa) to castration resistance. The role of
microRNAs (miRNAs) in aberrant AR signaling have not been fully characterized.
Here we screened a library of 810 miRNA mimics to identify miRNAs that alter AR
activity in complementary functional assays including protein lysate microarray
(LMA) quantification of AR and PSA protein levels, AR transcriptional reporter
activity, and AR-positive PCa cell viability. Candidate AR-regulating miRNAs were
verified through AR transcriptional reporter and cell viability assays. MiRNA
binding sites were found within the AR 3'-untranslated region (UTR) and within
the AR and AR-V7 coding regions. MiRNA activity was characterized by western
blotting, 3'-UTR reporter assay, and AR-GFP and AR-V7-GFP reporter assays.
Results uncovered miR-30 family members as direct AR inhibitors. Inhibition of
endogenous miR-30b-3p and miR-30d-5p enhanced AR expression and
androgen-independent cell growth. Droplet digital RT-PCR quantification of
miR-30c-5p and miR-30d-5p revealed significantly reduced levels in metastatic
castration resistant PCa (CRPC), when compared to healthy prostate tissues.
MiR-30d-5p levels were inversely correlated with AR activity, as measured by PSA 
mRNA, in metastatic CRPC. Collectively, these studies provide a comprehensive
evaluation of AR-regulating miRNAs in PCa.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.12241 
PMID: 27683042 


266. J Transl Med. 2016 Sep 29;14(1):281.

The fibrolytic potentials of vitamin D and thymoquinone remedial therapies:
insights from liver fibrosis established by CCl4 in rats.

Abdelghany AH(1,)(2), BaSalamah MA(3), Idris S(2), Ahmad J(2), Refaat B(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine, Alexandria University, Alexandria,
Egypt. (2)Laboratory Medicine Department, Faculty of Applied Medical Sciences,
Umm Al-Qura University, Al Abdeyah, PO Box 7607, Makkah, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Pathology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Umm Al-Qura University, Al Abdeyah,
Makkah, Saudi Arabia. (4)Laboratory Medicine Department, Faculty of Applied
Medical Sciences, Umm Al-Qura University, Al Abdeyah, PO Box 7607, Makkah, Saudi 
Arabia. bassem.refaat@yahoo.co.uk.

BACKGROUND: Vitamin D (VitD) and thymoquinone (TQ) are nutraceutical agents with 
well-known immunomodulatory and hepatoprotective properties. This study measured 
whether VitD and TQ, individually or combined, could have direct fibrolytic
activities and/or enhanced performance during remedial treatment of liver
fibrosis established by CCl4 in rats.
METHODS: Eighty five male Wistar rats were used as 10 negative controls (NC) and 
the remainders were distributed equally into 5 groups: short (S-PC) and long
(L-PC) positive controls, TQ, VitD and VitD/TQ groups. CCl4 was injected for
7 weeks followed by a week of no intervention. TQ and/or VitD were given orally
(3 days/week) from week 9 and euthanasia was at week 17 for all groups except the
S-PC was at week 9. Following histopathological and digital image analyses,
TGF-β1, IL-6, IL-10, IL-22 and MMP-9 were measured by ELISA in liver homogenates 
while the corresponding cytokine receptors were measured by immunohistochemistry.
The mRNA expressions of all molecules were measured by quantitative RT-PCR.
RESULTS: Fibrosis was evident in both PC-groups and was significantly more
advanced in the L-PC than S-PC, reaching to cirrhosis. The concentrations of
TGF-β1, IL-6, IL-22 and their receptors were significantly higher (P < 0.05)
simultaneously with significantly lower (P < 0.05) concentrations of MMP-9, IL-10
and IL-10 receptors in the S-PC and L-PC than the NC-group. TQ and VitD
monotherapies showed significantly less fibrosis than L-PC but were similar to
S-PC. Both remedial monotherapies also resulted in significant decreases of
TGF-β1, IL-6, IL-22 and their receptors together with significant increases of
MMP-9 and IL-10 system compared with S-PC and L-PC groups. Interestingly, dual
therapy resulted in the most significant improvement in fibrosis score and index,
yet was significantly higher (P < 0.05) than the NC-group, and concurred with the
utmost significant restorations of all candidate genes and proteins.
CONCLUSIONS: VitD and TQ exhibited comparable anti-fibrogenic effects and
modulated several pro- and anti-fibrotic mediators. Additionally, VitD/TQ dual
therapy alleviated the previously established liver fibrosis simultaneously with 
significantly enhanced actions at the molecular level. More studies are required 
to explorer the therapeutic value of TQ and VitD against liver fibrosis in human.

DOI: 10.1186/s12967-016-1040-4 
PMCID: PMC5041560
PMID: 27681697 


267. Ann Oncol. 2016 Oct;27(10):1860-6. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdw286.

Somatic mutation, copy number and transcriptomic profiles of primary and matched 
metastatic estrogen receptor-positive breast cancers.

Fumagalli D(1), Wilson TR(2), Salgado R(1), Lu X(3), Yu J(3), O'Brien C(2),
Walter K(2), Huw LY(2), Criscitiello C(4), Laios I(5), Jose V(1), Brown DN(1),
Rothé F(1), Maetens M(1), Zardavas D(6), Savas P(7), Larsimont D(5),
Piccart-Gebhart MJ(8), Michiels S(9), Lackner MR(2), Sotiriou C(10), Loi S(11).

Author information: 
(1)Breast Cancer Translational Research Laboratory, Institut Jules Bordet, Free
University of Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium. (2)Oncology Biomarker Development,
Genentech Inc., South San Francisco, CA, USA. (3)Department of Biostatistics,
Genentech Inc., South San Francisco, CA, USA. (4)Division of Early Drug
Development for Innovative Therapies, European Institute of Oncology, Milan,
Italy. (5)Department of Pathology, Institut Jules Bordet, Brussels, Belgium.
(6)Breast International Group, Brussels, Belgium. (7)Division of Clinical
Medicine and Research, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, East Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia. (8)Division of Medical Oncology, Institut Jules Bordet, Brussels,
Belgium. (9)Division of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Institut Gustave Roussy, 
Villejuif, France INSERM U1018, CESP, University of Paris, Villejuif, France.
(10)Breast Cancer Translational Research Laboratory, Institut Jules Bordet, Free 
University of Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium Division of Medical Oncology, Institut
Jules Bordet, Brussels, Belgium. (11)Division of Clinical Medicine and Research, 
Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, East Melbourne, Victoria, Australia
sherene.loi@petermac.org.

BACKGROUND: Estrogen receptor-positive (ER+) breast cancers (BCs) constitute the 
most frequent BC subtype. The molecular landscape of ER+ relapsed disease is not 
well characterized. In this study, we aimed to describe the genomic evolution
between primary (P) and matched metastatic (M) ER+ BCs after failure of adjuvant 
therapy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 182 ER+ metastatic BC patients with long-term
follow-up were identified from a single institution. P tumor tissue was available
for all patients, with 88 having matched M material. According to the
availability of tumor material, samples were characterized using a 120 mutational
hotspot qPCR, a 29 gene copy number aberrations (CNA) and a 400 gene expression
panels. ESR1 mutations were assayed by droplet digital PCR. Molecular alterations
were correlated with overall survival (OS) using the Cox proportional hazards
regression models.
RESULTS: The median follow-up was 6.4 years (range 0.5-26.6 years). Genomic
analysis of P tumors revealed somatic mutations in PIK3CA, KRAS, AKT1, FGFR3,
HRAS and BRAF at frequencies of 41%, 6%, 5%, 2%, 1% and 2%, respectively, and CN 
amplification of CCND1, ZNF703, FGFR1, RSF1 and PAK1 at 23%, 19%, 17%, 12% and
11%, respectively. Mutations and CN amplifications were largely concordant
between P and matched M (>84%). ESR1 mutations were found in 10.8% of the M but
none of the P. Thirteen genes, among which ESR1, FOXA1, and HIF1A, showed
significant differential expression between P and M. In P, the differential
expression of 18 genes, among which IDO1, was significantly associated with OS
(FDR < 0.1).
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the large concordance between P and matched M for the
evaluated molecular alterations, potential actionable targets such as ESR1
mutations were found only in M. This supports the importance of characterizing
the M disease. Other targets we identified, such as HIF1A and IDO1, warrant
further investigation in this patient population.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European
Society for Medical Oncology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdw286 
PMID: 27672107 


268. Appl Transl Genom. 2016 Jul 1;10:2-9. doi: 10.1016/j.atg.2016.06.001. eCollection
2016.

Standardization and quality management in next-generation sequencing.

Endrullat C(1), Glökler J(1), Franke P(1), Frohme M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Biotechnology and Functional Genomics, Institute of Applied
Biosciences, Technical University of Applied Sciences Wildau, Hochschulring 1,
15745 Wildau, Germany.

DNA sequencing continues to evolve quickly even after > 30 years. Many new
platforms suddenly appeared and former established systems have vanished in
almost the same manner. Since establishment of next-generation sequencing
devices, this progress gains momentum due to the continually growing demand for
higher throughput, lower costs and better quality of data. In consequence of this
rapid development, standardized procedures and data formats as well as
comprehensive quality management considerations are still scarce. Here, we listed
and summarized current standardization efforts and quality management initiatives
from companies, organizations and societies in form of published studies and
ongoing projects. These comprise on the one hand quality documentation issues
like technical notes, accreditation checklists and guidelines for validation of
sequencing workflows. On the other hand, general standard proposals and quality
metrics are developed and applied to the sequencing workflow steps with the main 
focus on upstream processes. Finally, certain standard developments for
downstream pipeline data handling, processing and storage are discussed in brief.
These standardization approaches represent a first basis for continuing work in
order to prospectively implement next-generation sequencing in important areas
such as clinical diagnostics, where reliable results and fast processing is
crucial. Additionally, these efforts will exert a decisive influence on
traceability and reproducibility of sequence data.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atg.2016.06.001 
PMCID: PMC5025460
PMID: 27668169 


269. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2016 Sep 13;96(34):2739-2743. doi:
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0376-2491.2016.34.011.

[Endoplasmic reticulum stress in INS-1-3 cell associated with the expression
changes of MODY gene pathway].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu YT(1), Li SR, Wang Z, Xiao JZ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Endocrinology, China-Japan Friendship Hospital, Beijing 100029, 
China.

Objective: To profile the gene expression changes associated with endoplasmic
reticulum stress in INS-1-3 cells induced by thapsigargin (TG) and tunicamycin
(TM). Methods: Normal cultured INS-1-3 cells were used as a control. TG and TM
were used to induce endoplasmic reticulum stress in INS-1-3 cells. Digital gene
expression profiling technique was used to detect differentially expressed gene. 
The changes of gene expression were detected by expression pattern clustering
analysis, gene ontology (GO) function and pathway enrichment analysis. Real time 
polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was used to verify the key changes of gene
expression. Results: Compared with the control group, there were 57 (45
up-regulated, 12 down-regulated) and 135 (99 up-regulated, 36 down-regulated)
differentially expressed genes in TG and TM group, respectively. GO function
enrichment analyses indicated that the main enrichment was in the endoplasmic
reticulum. In signaling pathway analysis, the identified pathways were related
with endoplasmic reticulum stress, antigen processing and presentation, protein
export, and most of all, the maturity onset diabetes of the young (MODY) pathway.
Conclusion: Under the condition of endoplasmic reticulum stress, the related
expression changes of transcriptional factors in MODY signaling pathway may be
related with the impaired function in islet beta cells.


PMID: 27667109 


270. Molecules. 2016 Sep 20;21(9). pii: E1251.

Digital Gene Expression Profiling to Explore Differentially Expressed Genes
Associated with Terpenoid Biosynthesis during Fruit Development in Litsea cubeba.

Gao M(1,)(2), Lin L(3,)(4), Chen Y(5,)(6), Wang Y(7,)(8).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding, Chinese Academy of 
Forestry, No.1 Dong Xiaofu, Beijing 10086, China. minggao1984@caf.ac.cn.
(2)Research Institute of Subtropical Forestry, Chinese Academy of Forestry, No.73
Daqiao Road, Hangzhou 311400, Zhejiang Province, China. minggao1984@caf.ac.cn.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding, Chinese Academy of 
Forestry, No.1 Dong Xiaofu, Beijing 10086, China. linkeyuanxl@126.com.
(4)Research Institute of Subtropical Forestry, Chinese Academy of Forestry, No.73
Daqiao Road, Hangzhou 311400, Zhejiang Province, China. linkeyuanxl@126.com.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding, Chinese Academy of 
Forestry, No.1 Dong Xiaofu, Beijing 10086, China. yicun_chen@163.com. (6)Research
Institute of Subtropical Forestry, Chinese Academy of Forestry, No.73 Daqiao
Road, Hangzhou 311400, Zhejiang Province, China. yicun_chen@163.com. (7)State Key
Laboratory of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding, Chinese Academy of Forestry,
No.1 Dong Xiaofu, Beijing 10086, China. wyd11111@126.com. (8)Research Institute
of Subtropical Forestry, Chinese Academy of Forestry, No.73 Daqiao Road, Hangzhou
311400, Zhejiang Province, China. wyd11111@126.com.

Mountain pepper (Litseacubeba (Lour.) Pers.) (Lauraceae) is an important
industrial crop as an ingredient in cosmetics, pesticides, food additives and
potential biofuels. These properties are attributed to monoterpenes and
sesquiterpenes. However, there is still no integrated model describing
differentially expressed genes (DEGs) involved in terpenoid biosynthesis during
the fruit development of L. cubeba. Here, we performed digital gene expression
(DGE) using the Illumina NGS platform to evaluated changes in gene expression
during fruit development in L. cubeba. DGE generated expression data for
approximately 19354 genes. Fruit at 60 days after flowering (DAF) served as the
control, and a total of 415, 1255, 449 and 811 up-regulated genes and 505, 1351, 
1823 and 1850 down-regulated genes were identified at 75, 90, 105 and 135 DAF,
respectively. Pathway analysis revealed 26 genes involved in terpenoid
biosynthesis pathways. Three DEGs had continued increasing or declining trends
during the fruit development. The quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) results of
five differentially expressed genes were consistent with those obtained from
Illumina sequencing. These results provide a comprehensive molecular biology
background for research on fruit development, and information that should aid in 
metabolic engineering to increase the yields of L. cubeba essential oil.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules21091251 
PMID: 27657027 


271. Sci Rep. 2016 Sep 22;6:33697. doi: 10.1038/srep33697.

High throughput sequencing analysis of RNA libraries reveals the influences of
initial library and PCR methods on SELEX efficiency.

Takahashi M(1), Wu X(1,)(2), Ho M(3), Chomchan P(1), Rossi JJ(1,)(3), Burnett
JC(1), Zhou J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Beckman Research Institute of
City of Hope, Duarte, CA, 91010, USA. (2)Integrative Genomics Core, Beckman
Research Institute of City of Hope, Duarte, CA, 91010, USA. (3)Irell and Manella 
Graduate School of Biological Sciences, Beckman Research Institute of City of
Hope, Duarte, CA, 91010, USA.

The systemic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment (SELEX) technique is 
a powerful and effective aptamer-selection procedure. However, modifications to
the process can dramatically improve selection efficiency and aptamer
performance. For example, droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) has been recently
incorporated into SELEX selection protocols to putatively reduce the propagation 
of byproducts and avoid selection bias that result from differences in PCR
efficiency of sequences within the random library. However, a detailed, parallel 
comparison of the efficacy of conventional solution PCR versus the ddPCR
modification in the RNA aptamer-selection process is needed to understand effects
on overall SELEX performance. In the present study, we took advantage of powerful
high throughput sequencing technology and bioinformatics analysis coupled with
SELEX (HT-SELEX) to thoroughly investigate the effects of initial library and PCR
methods in the RNA aptamer identification. Our analysis revealed that distinct
"biased sequences" and nucleotide composition existed in the initial, unselected 
libraries purchased from two different manufacturers and that the fate of the
"biased sequences" was target-dependent during selection. Our comparison of
solution PCR- and ddPCR-driven HT-SELEX demonstrated that PCR method affected not
only the nucleotide composition of the enriched sequences, but also the overall
SELEX efficiency and aptamer efficacy.

DOI: 10.1038/srep33697 
PMCID: PMC5031971
PMID: 27652575 

Conflict of interest statement: J.J.R. and J.Z. have an issued patent entitled
“Cell-type specific aptamer-siRNA delivery system for HIV-1 therapy”. USPTO, No. 
US 8, 222, 226 B2, July 17, 2012. J.J.R., J.Z., M.S.W., and K.V.M. have a patent 
pending on “Cell-specific internalizing RNA aptamers against human CCR5 and used 
therefore”, United States Patent, application number: 62/025, 368, filed on July 
16, 2014. J.J.R., J.Z., M.T. and J.C.B. have patent disclosures entitled “CCR7
and CD2 RNA Aptamer-Functionalized-Conjugates to Target and Activate HIV Latently
Infected Lymphocytes”, City of hope, filed on Jan 2016.


272. Sci Rep. 2016 Sep 21;6:33719. doi: 10.1038/srep33719.

Photobiomodulation (blue and green light) encourages osteoblastic-differentiation
of human adipose-derived stem cells: role of intracellular calcium and
light-gated ion channels.

Wang Y(1,)(2,)(3,)(4), Huang YY(3,)(4), Wang Y(1,)(2), Lyu P(1,)(2), Hamblin
MR(3,)(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Center of Digital Dentistry, Peking University School and Hospital of
Stomatology, Beijing, China. (2)National Engineering Laboratory for Digital and
Material Technology of Stomatology, Beijing, China. (3)Wellman Center for
Photomedicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, 02114, USA.
(4)Department of Dermatology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, 02115, USA.
(5)Harvard-MIT Division of Health Sciences and Technology, Cambridge, MA, 02139, 
USA.

Human adipose-derived stem cells (hASCs) have the potential to differentiate into
several different cell types including osteoblasts. Photobiomodulation (PBM) or
low level laser therapy (LLLT) using red or near-infrared wavelengths has been
reported to have effects on both proliferation and osteogenic differentiation of 
stem cells. We examined the effects of delivering four different wavelengths
(420 nm, 540 nm, 660 nm, 810 nm) at the same dose (3 J/cm(2)) five times (every
two days) on hASCs cultured in osteogenic medium over three weeks. We measured
expression of the following transcription factors byRT-PCR: RUNX2, osterix, and
the osteoblast protein, osteocalcin. The 420 nm and 540 nm wavelengths were more 
effective in stimulating osteoblast differentiation compared to 660 nm and
810 nm. Intracellular calcium was higher after 420 nm and 540 nm, and could be
inhibited by capsazepine and SKF96365, which also inhibited osteogenic
differentiation. We hypothesize that activation of light-gated calcium ion
channels by blue and green light could explain our results.

DOI: 10.1038/srep33719 
PMCID: PMC5030629
PMID: 27650508 


273. Pediatr Surg Int. 2016 Dec;32(12):1133-1140. Epub 2016 Sep 19.

Accelerated intestinal epithelial cell turnover after bowel resection in a rat is
correlated with inhibited hedgehog signaling cascade.

Sukhotnik I(1,)(2), Dorfman T(3,)(4), Halabi S(3,)(5), Pollak Y(3), Kreizman
Shefer H(3), Coran AG(6), Berkowitz D(7).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Intestinal Adaptation and Recovery, The Bruce Rappaport Faculty 
of Medicine, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel.
igor-dr@internet-zahav.net. (2)Department of Pediatric Surgery B, Bnai Zion
Medical Center, 47 Golomb St., P.O.B. 4940, Haifa, 31048, Israel.
igor-dr@internet-zahav.net. (3)Laboratory of Intestinal Adaptation and Recovery, 
The Bruce Rappaport Faculty of Medicine, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology,
Haifa, Israel. (4)Department of Pediatric Surgery B, Bnai Zion Medical Center, 47
Golomb St., P.O.B. 4940, Haifa, 31048, Israel. (5)Department of Emergency
Medicine, Carmel Medical Center, Haifa, Israel. (6)Section of Pediatric Surgery, 
C.S. Mott Children's Hospital, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, 
MI, USA. (7)Department of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Nutrition, Bnai Zion
Medical Center, Haifa, Israel.

PURPOSE: The hedgehog (Hh) signaling pathway is one of the key regulators of
gastrointestinal tract development. Recent studies point to the role of hedgehog 
signaling in regulating adult stem cells involved in maintenance and regeneration
of intestinal stem cells. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the role of
Hh signaling during intestinal adaptation in a rat model of short bowel syndrome 
(SBS).
METHODS: Male rats were divided into two groups: Sham rats underwent bowel
transection and SBS rats underwent a 75 % bowel resection. Parameters of
intestinal adaptation, enterocyte proliferation, and apoptosis were determined
2 weeks after operation. Illumina's Digital Gene Expression analysis was used to 
determine the Hh signaling gene expression profiling. Hh-related genes and
protein expression were determined using Real-Time PCR, Western blotting, and
immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: Massive small bowel resection resulted in a significant increase in
enterocyte proliferation and concomitant increase in cell apoptosis. From the
total number of 20,000 probes, 13 genes related to Hh signaling were
investigated. In jejunum, eight genes were down-regulated, three genes
up-regulated, and two genes remained unchanged. In ileum, five genes were
down-regulated and six genes were unchanged in SBS vs sham animals. SBS rats also
demonstrated a significant three- to fourfold decrease in SMO, GIL, and PTCH
mRNA, and protein levels (determined by Real-Time PCR and Western blot) compared 
to control animals.
CONCLUSION: Two weeks following massive bowel resection in rats, the accelerated 
cell turnover was accompanied by an inhibited Hh signaling pathway. Hh signaling 
may serve as an important mediator of reciprocal interactions between the
epithelium and the underlying mesenchymal stroma during intestinal adaptation
following massive bowel resection in a rat.

DOI: 10.1007/s00383-016-3969-z 
PMID: 27644702  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Sci Rep. 2016 Sep 19;6:33505. doi: 10.1038/srep33505.

Mutation analysis of circulating plasma DNA to determine response to EGFR
tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy of lung adenocarcinoma patients.

Riediger AL(1,)(2), Dietz S(1,)(2), Schirmer U(1,)(2), Meister M(2,)(3),
Heinzmann-Groth I(3), Schneider M(2,)(3), Muley T(2,)(3), Thomas M(2,)(4),
Sültmann H(1,)(2,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Genome Research Group, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ) and
National Center for Tumor Diseases (NCT), Im Neuenheimer Feld 460, 69120
Heidelberg, Germany. (2)Translational Lung Research Center (TLRC) Heidelberg,
German Center for Lung Research (DZL), Im Neuenheimer Feld 156, Heidelberg,
Germany. (3)Translational Research Unit, Thoraxklinik at University Hospital
Heidelberg, Amalienstraße 5, 69126 Heidelberg, Germany. (4)Department of
Oncology, Thoraxklinik at University Hospital Heidelberg, Amalienstraße 5, 69126 
Heidelberg, Germany. (5)German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), Im Neuenheimer Feld 460,
69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

Long-lasting success in lung cancer therapy using tyrosine kinase inhibitors
(TKIs) is rare since the tumors develop resistance due to the occurrence of
molecularly altered subclones. The aim of this study was to monitor tumors over
time based on the quantity of mutant plasma DNA and to identify early indications
for therapy response and tumor progression. Serial plasma samples from lung
adenocarcinoma patients treated with TKIs were used to quantify EGFR and KRAS
mutations in circulating DNA by digital PCR. Mutant DNA levels were compared with
the courses of responses to treatment with TKIs, conventional chemotherapy,
radiotherapy, or combinations thereof. Variations in plasma DNA mutation levels
over time were found in 15 patients. We categorize three major courses: First,
signs of therapy response are associated with a fast clearing of plasma DNA
mutations within a few days. Second, periods of stable disease are accompanied by
either absence of mutations or fluctuation at low levels. Finally, dramatic
increase of mutational load is followed by rapid tumor progression and poor
patient survival. In summary, the serial assessment of EGFR mutations in the
plasma of NSCLC patients allows conclusions about controlled disease and tumor
progression earlier than currently available methods.

DOI: 10.1038/srep33505 
PMCID: PMC5027592
PMID: 27640882 


275. Benef Microbes. 2016 Nov 30;7(5):621. Epub 2016 Sep 16.

Comment on 'Determination of Bifidobacterium and Lactobacillus in breast milk of 
healthy women by digital PCR'.

Weizman Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion University, P.O. Box 151, 84151
Beer-Sheva, Israel.

DOI: 10.3920/BM2016.0118 
PMID: 27633170 


276. Transgenic Res. 2016 Dec;25(6):855-864. Epub 2016 Sep 8.

Comparison of droplet digital PCR with quantitative real-time PCR for
determination of zygosity in transgenic maize.

Xu X(1), Peng C(1), Wang X(1), Chen X(1), Wang Q(1), Xu J(2).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory Breeding Base for Zhejiang Sustainable Pest and Disease
Control, Zhejiang Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Hangzhou, 310021, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory Breeding Base for Zhejiang Sustainable Pest and Disease
Control, Zhejiang Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Hangzhou, 310021, China.
njjfxu@163.com.

This study evaluated the applicability of droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) as a tool
for maize zygosity determination using quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) as a
reference technology. Quantitative real-time PCR is commonly used to determine
transgene copy number or GMO zygosity characterization. However, its
effectiveness is based on identical reaction efficiencies for the transgene and
the endogenous reference gene. Additionally, a calibrator sample should be
utilized for accuracy. Droplet digital PCR is a DNA molecule counting technique
that directly counts the absolute number of target and reference DNA molecules in
a sample, independent of assay efficiency or external calibrators. The zygosity
of the transgene can be easily determined using the ratio of the quantity of the 
target gene to the reference single copy endogenous gene. In this study, both the
qPCR and ddPCR methods were used to determine insect-resistant transgenic maize
IE034 zygosity. Both methods performed well, but the ddPCR method was more
convenient because of its absolute quantification property.

DOI: 10.1007/s11248-016-9982-0 
PMID: 27632191 


277. Virology. 2016 Dec;499:1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.virol.2016.09.001. Epub 2016 Sep 10.

MacoNPV baculovirus midgut-specific gene expression during infection of the
bertha armyworm, Mamestra configurata.

Donly BC(1), Kaplanoglu E(2), Theilmann DA(3), Baldwin D(4), Sieminska E(4),
Hegedus DD(4), Erlandson MA(4).

Author information: 
(1)London Research and Development Centre, AAFC, London, ON, Canada. Electronic
address: Cam.Donly@agr.gc.ca. (2)London Research and Development Centre, AAFC,
London, ON, Canada. (3)Summerland Research and Development Centre, AAFC,
Summerland, BC, Canada. (4)Saskatoon Research and Development Centre, AAFC,
Saskatoon, SK, Canada.

Baculoviruses have two forms, occlusion derived virus (ODV) which is responsible 
for primary infection in host midgut tissue and budded virus (BV), which infects 
all other host tissues during secondary infection. This study examined the
primary infection by ODV of midgut cells of bertha armyworm Mamestra configurata 
fourth instar larvae and measured the expression of viral genes over a time
course of infection. Both digital PCR and RNA sequencing methods showed the
profile of transcription to be different from those produced by AcMNPV BV
infection of in vitro cell cultures. This included having unique collections of
genes expressed early, as well as much greater late gene expression of p6.9 and
much reduced expression of polh and p10. These differences likely reflect
characteristics unique to the critical step of in vivo midgut cell infection, and
provide insights into the processes that regulate viral gene expression in
different host tissues.

Crown Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virol.2016.09.001 
PMID: 27623563 


278. Chem Cent J. 2016 Sep 12;10(1):55. doi: 10.1186/s13065-016-0201-0. eCollection
2016.

Quantification of plasmid DNA reference materials for Shiga toxin-producing
Escherichia coli based on UV, HR-ICP-MS and digital PCR.

Liang W(1), Xu L(1), Sui Z(2), Li Y(1), Li L(1), Wen Y(1), Li C(1), Ren S(1), Liu
G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biometrology, Shanghai Institute of Measurement and Testing
Technology, 1500 Zhang Heng Road, Shanghai, 201203 People's Republic of China.
(2)Division of Medical and Biological Measurement, National Institute of
Metrology, No.18, Bei San Huan Dong Lu, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100013
People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: The accuracy and metrology traceability of DNA quantification is
becoming a critical theme in many fields, including diagnosis, forensic analysis,
microorganism detection etc. Thus the research of DNA reference materials (RMs)
and consistency of DNA quantification methods has attracted considerable research
interest.
RESULTS: In this work, we developed 3 plasmid candidate RMs, containing 3 target 
genes of Escherichia coli O157:H7 (E. coli O157:H7) and other Shiga
toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC): stx1, stx2, and fliC (h7) respectively. 
Comprehensive investigation of the plasmid RMs was performed for their sequence, 
purity, homogeneity and stability, and then the concentration was quantified by
three different methods: ultraviolet spectrophotometer (UV), high resolution
inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (HR-ICP-MS) and digital PCR. As a
routinely applied method for DNA analysis, UV was utilized for the quantification
(OD260) and purity analysis for the plasmids. HR-ICP-MS quantified the plasmid
DNA through analysing the phosphorus in DNA molecules. Digital PCR distributed
the DNA samples onto a microarray chip containing thousands of reaction chambers,
and quantified the DNA copy numbers by analysing the number of positive signals
without any calibration curves needed.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the high purification of the DNA reference materials and
the optimization of dPCR analysis, we successfully achieved good consistency
between UV, HR-ICP-MS and dPCR, with relative deviations lower than 10 %. We then
performed the co-quantification of 3 DNA RMs with three different methods
together, and the uncertainties of their concentration were evaluated. Finally,
the certified values and expanded uncertainties for 3 DNA RMs (pFliC, pStx1 and
pStx2) were (1.60 ± 0.10) × 10(10) copies/μL, (1.53 ± 0.10) × 10(10) copies/μL
and (1.70 ± 0.11) × 10(10) copies/μL respectively.Graphical abstractWe developed 
3 plasmid candidate RMs, containing 3 target genes of Escherichia coli O157:H7
(E. coli O157:H7) and other Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC): stx1, 
stx2, and fliC (h7) respectively, and the quantification of three different
methods (UV, dPCR, ICP) was studied.

DOI: 10.1186/s13065-016-0201-0 
PMCID: PMC5018943
PMID: 27621755 


279. Clin Biochem. 2016 Dec;49(18):1379-1386. doi: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2016.09.009. 
Epub 2016 Sep 9.

Cell-free DNA in maternal plasma and serum: A comparison of quantity, quality and
tissue origin using genomic and epigenomic approaches.

Wong FC(1), Sun K(2), Jiang P(3), Cheng YK(4), Chan KC(5), Leung TY(6), Chiu
RW(7), Lo YM(8).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Research into Circulating Fetal Nucleic Acids, Li Ka Shing
Institute of Health Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, New
Territories, Hong Kong SAR, China; Department of Chemical Pathology, The Chinese 
University of Hong Kong, Prince of Wales Hospital, Shatin, New Territories, Hong 
Kong SAR, China. Electronic address: felix@cuhk.edu.hk. (2)Centre for Research
into Circulating Fetal Nucleic Acids, Li Ka Shing Institute of Health Sciences,
The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong SAR,
China; Department of Chemical Pathology, The Chinese University of Hong Kong,
Prince of Wales Hospital, Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong SAR, China.
Electronic address: sunkun@cuhk.edu.hk. (3)Centre for Research into Circulating
Fetal Nucleic Acids, Li Ka Shing Institute of Health Sciences, The Chinese
University of Hong Kong, Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong SAR, China;
Department of Chemical Pathology, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Prince of 
Wales Hospital, Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong SAR, China. Electronic
address: jiangpeiyong@cuhk.edu.hk. (4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology,
The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Prince of Wales Hospital, Shatin, New
Territories, Hong Kong SAR, China. Electronic address: yvonnecheng@cuhk.edu.hk.
(5)Centre for Research into Circulating Fetal Nucleic Acids, Li Ka Shing
Institute of Health Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, New
Territories, Hong Kong SAR, China; Department of Chemical Pathology, The Chinese 
University of Hong Kong, Prince of Wales Hospital, Shatin, New Territories, Hong 
Kong SAR, China. Electronic address: allen@cuhk.edu.hk. (6)Department of
Obstetrics and Gynaecology, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Prince of Wales 
Hospital, Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong SAR, China. Electronic address:
tyleung@cuhk.edu.hk. (7)Centre for Research into Circulating Fetal Nucleic Acids,
Li Ka Shing Institute of Health Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong Kong,
Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong SAR, China; Department of Chemical Pathology, 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Prince of Wales Hospital, Shatin, New
Territories, Hong Kong SAR, China. Electronic address: rossachiu@cuhk.edu.hk.
(8)Centre for Research into Circulating Fetal Nucleic Acids, Li Ka Shing
Institute of Health Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, New
Territories, Hong Kong SAR, China; Department of Chemical Pathology, The Chinese 
University of Hong Kong, Prince of Wales Hospital, Shatin, New Territories, Hong 
Kong SAR, China. Electronic address: loym@cuhk.edu.hk.

OBJECTIVES: The objectives of this study were to compare the concentrations, size
profiles and major tissue contributors of cell-free DNA (cfDNA) in plasma and in 
serum.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Thirteen pregnant women in the third trimester were recruited
for this study. We collected EDTA-plasma and serum samples using various
collection tubes. We determined their cfDNA concentrations and fetal cfDNA
fractions using a zinc-finger X (ZFX)/zinc-finger Y (ZFY) droplet digital
polymerase chain reaction (ZFX/ZFY ddPCR) assay. We used paired-end massively
parallel sequencing (MPS) to measure plasma and serum cfDNA sizes at single-base 
resolution. We deconvoluted the genome-wide bisulfite sequencing data with
reference to the methylation profiles of different tissues.
RESULTS: The concentrations of cfDNA collected in Sarstedt Serum Z tubes were
found to be significantly higher than those in Greiner Bio-One Vacuette® Z Serum 
Separator Clot Activator tubes or Vacuette® Z Serum Clot Activator tubes. The
concentrations of fetal cfDNA were significantly reduced in samples collected in 
the Vacuette® serum collection tubes. Fetal cfDNA fractions were significantly
reduced in all sera compared to plasma. MPS of serum cfDNA revealed a right shift
of the size distributions compared to plasma. Methylation-based tissue mapping of
serum cfDNA revealed an increase of cfDNA from neutrophils and B cells but not T 
cells.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of different serum collection tubes has a significant impact
on serum cfDNA concentrations. This effect is likely mediated through the
combined effect of genomic DNA release from white blood cells and DNA degradation
or removal.

Copyright Â© 2016 The Canadian Society of Clinical Chemists. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2016.09.009 
PMID: 27620950  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Int J Mol Sci. 2016 Sep 9;17(9). pii: E1515. doi: 10.3390/ijms17091515.

Digital PCR Panel for Sensitive Hematopoietic Chimerism Quantification after
Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplantation.

Stahl T(1), Rothe C(2), Böhme MU(3), Kohl A(4), Kröger N(5), Fehse B(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Stem Cell Transplantation, University Medical Center
Hamburg-Eppendorf, 20246 Hamburg, Germany. t.stahl@uke.de. (2)Biotype Diagnostic 
GmbH, 01109 Dresden, Germany. c.rothe@biotype.de. (3)Biotype Diagnostic GmbH,
01109 Dresden, Germany. m.boehme@biotype.de. (4)Department of Stem Cell
Transplantation, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, 20246 Hamburg,
Germany. aloisakohl@hotmail.com. (5)Department of Stem Cell Transplantation,
University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, 20246 Hamburg, Germany.
n.kroeger@uke.de. (6)Department of Stem Cell Transplantation, University Medical 
Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, 20246 Hamburg, Germany. fehse@uke.de.

Accurate and sensitive determination of hematopoietic chimerism is a crucial
diagnostic measure after allogeneic stem cell transplantation to monitor
engraftment and potentially residual disease. Short tandem repeat (STR)
amplification, the current "gold standard" for chimerism assessment facilitates
reliable accuracy, but is hampered by its limited sensitivity (≥1%). Digital PCR 
(dPCR) has been shown to combine exact quantification and high reproducibility
over a very wide measurement range with excellent sensitivity (routinely ≤0.1%)
and thus represents a promising alternative to STR analysis. We here aimed at
developing a whole panel of digital-PCR based assays for routine diagnostic. To
this end, we tested suitability of 52 deletion/insertion polymorphisms (DIPs) for
duplex analysis in combination with either a reference gene or a Y-chromosome
specific PCR. Twenty-nine DIPs with high power of discrimination and good
performance were identified, optimized and technically validated. We tested the
newly established assays on retrospective patient samples that were in parallel
also measured by STR amplification and found excellent correlation. Finally, a
screening plate for initial genotyping with DIP-specific duplex dPCR assays was
designed for convenient assay selection. In conclusion, we have established a
comprehensive dPCR system for precise and high-sensitivity measurement of
hematopoietic chimerism, which should be highly useful for clinical routine
diagnostics.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms17091515 
PMCID: PMC5037792
PMID: 27618030  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of InterestCaroline Rothe and Manja U. 
Böhme are employees of Biotype Diagnostic GmbH, a company that aims at
commercializing the presented dPCR-based chimerism assays. All other authors
declare no conflict of interest. The founding body had no role in the design of
the study, in the collection, analyses, or interpretation of data, in the writing
of the manuscript, and in the decision to publish the results.


281. Biomol Detect Quantif. 2016 Aug 30;9:29-39. doi: 10.1016/j.bdq.2016.08.002.
eCollection 2016.

Validation of a digital PCR method for quantification of DNA copy number
concentrations by using a certified reference material.

Deprez L(1), Corbisier P(1), Kortekaas AM(1), Mazoua S(1), Beaz Hidalgo R(1),
Trapmann S(1), Emons H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Directorate for Health, Consumers and Reference Materials, Joint Research
Centre, European Commission, Retieseweg 111, 2440 Geel, Belgium.

Digital PCR has become the emerging technique for the sequence-specific detection
and quantification of nucleic acids for various applications. During the past
years, numerous reports on the development of new digital PCR methods have been
published. Maturation of these developments into reliable analytical methods
suitable for diagnostic or other routine testing purposes requires their
validation for the intended use. Here, the results of an in-house validation of a
droplet digital PCR method are presented. This method is intended for the
quantification of the absolute copy number concentration of a purified linearized
plasmid in solution with a nucleic acid background. It has been investigated
which factors within the measurement process have a significant effect on the
measurement results, and the contribution to the overall measurement uncertainty 
has been estimated. A comprehensive overview is provided on all the aspects that 
should be investigated when performing an in-house method validation of a digital
PCR method.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bdq.2016.08.002 
PMCID: PMC5007884
PMID: 27617230 


282. Biomol Detect Quantif. 2016 Aug 27;9:20-8. doi: 10.1016/j.bdq.2016.08.003.
eCollection 2016.

Influence of primer & probe chemistry and amplification target on reverse
transcription digital PCR quantification of viral RNA.

Van Heuverswyn F(1), Karczmarczyk M(1), Schimmel H(1), Trapmann S(1), Emons H(1).

Author information: 
(1)European Commission, Joint Research Centre, Retieseweg 111, B-2440 Geel,
Belgium.

Compared to other PCR technologies, digital PCR is a potentially highly accurate 
approach for the quantification of nucleic acid fragments. This study describes
the impact of four experimental factors, namely primer and probe chemistry, PCR
amplification target, duplexing, and template type, on the measurement results
obtained by reverse transcription digital PCR (RT-dPCR) of viral RNA using
influenza A virus as a model. Along conventional dual labelled probes (DLP),
alternative primer and probe chemistries, including Zip Nucleic Acids (ZNAs),
Locked Nucleic Acids (LNAs), and Scorpions(®), were compared with two RNA
template types: i) total genomic RNA extracted from cell cultured influenza A and
ii) a synthetically prepared RNA transcript (In vitro transcribed RNA). While
apparently duplexing or a different PCR target choice did not have a significant 
influence on the estimated RNA copy numbers, the impact of the choice of primer
and probe chemistry and template type differed significantly for some methods.
The combined standard uncertainty of the dPCR analysis results has been assessed,
taking into account both the repeatability and the intermediate precision of the 
procedure. Our data highlight the importance of dPCR method optimisation and the 
advantage of using a more sophisticated primer and probe chemistry, which turned 
out to be dependent on the template type. Considerations are provided with
respect to the molecular diagnostics of viral RNA pathogens, and more
specifically, for precise quantification of RNA, which is of tremendous
importance for the development of RNA calibration materials and the qualification
of these calibrants as certified reference materials.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bdq.2016.08.003 
PMCID: PMC5007883
PMID: 27617229 


283. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2016 Dec;55(12):2248-2259. Epub 2016 Sep 10.

The prolactin receptor is expressed in rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic
arthritis synovial tissue and contributes to macrophage activation.

Tang MW(1,)(2), Reedquist KA(3,)(2), Garcia S(3,)(2), Fernandez BM(3,)(2),
Codullo V(3), Vieira-Sousa E(3), Goffin V(4), Reuwer AQ(5), Twickler MT(5),
Gerlag DM(3), Tak PP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Clinical Immunology and Rheumatology, Amsterdam Rheumatology and
Immunology Center, Academic Medical Center/University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam,
the Netherlands, m.w.tang@amc.uva.nl. (2)Department of Experimental Immunology,
Academic Medical Center/University of Amsterdam, the Netherlands. (3)Division of 
Clinical Immunology and Rheumatology, Amsterdam Rheumatology and Immunology
Center, Academic Medical Center/University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the
Netherlands. (4)Inserm, Inserm U1151, Institut Necker Enfants Malades, Faculté de
Médecine, Université Paris Descartes, Sorbonne Paris Cité, Paris, France.
(5)Division of Vascular Medicine, Academic Medical Center/University of
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: Prolactin (PRL) is a lactation-inducing hormone with immunomodulatory
properties and is found at elevated levels in the serum of patients with RA and
other rheumatic diseases. The PRL receptor (PRLR) has been shown to be expressed 
by macrophages in atherosclerotic plaques. The aim of this study was to examine
PRLR expression by synovial macrophages and its role in the regulation of
macrophage activation.
METHODS: Serum monomeric 23 kDa PRL levels were measured in 119 RA patients using
a fluoroimmunometric assay. PRLR expression was assessed in synovial tissue of 91
RA, 15 PsA and 8 OA patients by immunohistochemistry and digital image analysis. 
Double IF was used to identify PRLR-expressing cells. The effects of PRL on
monocyte-derived macrophage gene expression were examined by quantitative
real-time PCR and ELISA.
RESULTS: Serum PRL levels were similar in female and male RA patients. Median
(interquartile range) PRLR expression was significantly higher (P < 0.05) in RA
and PsA synovial tissue compared with OA. PRLR colocalized with synovial CD68(+) 
macrophages and von Willebrand factor(+) endothelial cells. In vitro, PRLR was
prominently expressed in IFN-γ-and IL-10-polarized macrophages compared with
other polarizing conditions. PRL by itself had negligible effects on macrophage
gene expression, but cooperated with CD40L and TNF to increase expression of
pro-inflammatory genes including IL-6, IL-8 and IL-12β.
CONCLUSIONS: Synovial PRLR expression is enhanced in patients with inflammatory
arthritis compared with OA, and PRL cooperates with other pro-inflammatory
stimuli to activate macrophages. These results identify PRL and PRLR as potential
new therapeutic targets in inflammatory arthritis.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British 
Society for Rheumatology.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/kew316 
PMCID: PMC5144667
PMID: 27616146 


284. PLoS One. 2016 Sep 9;11(9):e0162467. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0162467.
eCollection 2016.

Digital Droplet PCR for the Absolute Quantification of Exon Skipping Induced by
Antisense Oligonucleotides in (Pre-)Clinical Development for Duchenne Muscular
Dystrophy.

Verheul RC(1), van Deutekom JC(1), Datson NA(1).

Author information: 
(1)BioMarin Nederland BV, Leiden, The Netherlands.

Antisense oligonucleotides (AONs) in clinical development for Duchenne muscular
dystrophy (DMD) aim to induce skipping of a specific exon of the dystrophin
transcript during pre-mRNA splicing. This results in restoration of the open
reading frame and consequently synthesis of a dystrophin protein with a shorter
yet functional central rod domain. To monitor the molecular therapeutic effect of
exon skip-inducing AONs in clinical studies, accurate quantification of pre- and 
post-treatment exon skip levels is required. With the recent introduction of 3rd 
generation digital droplet PCR (ddPCR), a state-of-the-art technology became
available which allows absolute quantification of transcript copy numbers with
and without specific exon skip with high precision, sensitivity and
reproducibility. Using Taqman assays with probes targeting specific exon-exon
junctions, we here demonstrate that ddPCR reproducibly quantified cDNA fragments 
with and without exon 51 of the DMD gene over a 4-log dynamic range. In a
comparison of conventional nested PCR, qPCR and ddPCR using cDNA constructs with 
and without exon 51 mixed in different molar ratios using, ddPCR quantification
came closest to the expected outcome over the full range of ratios (0-100%),
while qPCR and in particular nested PCR overestimated the relative percentage of 
the construct lacking exon 51. Highest accuracy was similarly obtained with ddPCR
in DMD patient-derived muscle cells treated with an AON inducing exon 51
skipping. We therefore recommend implementation of ddPCR for quantification of
exon skip efficiencies of AONs in (pre)clinical development for DMD.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0162467 
PMCID: PMC5017733
PMID: 27612288 

Conflict of interest statement: All authors are employees (which includes
contribution to patent [applications] and participation in stock-option plans) of
BioMarin Nederland BV, a company that develops RNA therapeutics for Duchenne
muscular dystrophy. JCTvD is inventor on exon skipping patents (WO2002/024906
Induction of exon skipping in eukaryotic cells, WO2004/083446 Modulation of exon 
recognition in pre-mRNA by interfering with the secondary RNA structure,
WO2006/112705 Modulation of exon recognition in premRNA by interfering with the
binding of SR proteins and by interfering with secondary RNA structure,
WO2009/054725 Means and methods for counteracting muscle disorders, WO2009/139630
Method for efficient exon 44 skipping in Duchenne muscular dystrophy and
associated means, WO2010/050801 Methods and means for efficient skipping of exon 
45 in Duchenne muscular dystrophy pre-mRNA, WO2010/050802 Methods and means for
efficient skipping of at least one of the following exons of the human Duchenne
muscular dystrophy gene: 43, 46, 50-53, WO2013/112053 RNA modulating
oligonucleotides with improved characteristics for the treatment of Duchenne en
Becker muscular dystrophy, WO2014/007620 Oligonucleotide for the treatment of
muscular dystrophy patients). This did not alter the authors' adherence to PLOS
ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


285. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2016 Sep 7;10(9):e0004863. doi: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0004863.
eCollection 2016.

Low Prevalence of Conjunctival Infection with Chlamydia trachomatis in a
Treatment-Naïve Trachoma-Endemic Region of the Solomon Islands.

Butcher RM(1), Sokana O(2), Jack K(2), Macleod CK(1,)(3), Marks ME(1,)(4), Kalae 
E(5), Sui L(5), Russell C(6), Tutill HJ(7), Williams RJ(7), Breuer J(7), Willis
R(8), Le Mesurier RT(9), Mabey DC(1,)(4), Solomon AW(1), Roberts CH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Research Department, Faculty of Infectious and Tropical Diseases,
London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, London, United Kingdom. (2)Eye
Department, Solomon Islands Ministry of Health and Medical Services, Honiara,
Solomon Islands. (3)Sightsavers, Haywards Heath, United Kingdom. (4)Hospital for 
Tropical Diseases, University College London Hospitals, London, United Kingdom.
(5)Primary Care Department, Lata Hospital, Lata, Santa Cruz, Solomon Islands.
(6)Bellona Rural Health Centre, Bellona, Solomon Islands. (7)Division of
Infection & Immunity, Faculty of Medical Sciences, University College London,
London, United Kingdom. (8)Task Force for Global Health, Decatur, Georgia, United
States of America. (9)Centre for Eye Research Australia, University of Melbourne,
Royal Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital, Melbourne, Australia.

Erratum in
    PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2016 Oct 3;10 (10 ):e0005051.

BACKGROUND: Trachoma is endemic in several Pacific Island states. Recent surveys 
across the Solomon Islands indicated that whilst trachomatous
inflammation-follicular (TF) was present at levels warranting intervention, the
prevalence of trachomatous trichiasis (TT) was low. We set out to determine the
relationship between chlamydial infection and trachoma in this population.
METHODS: We conducted a population-based trachoma prevalence survey of 3674
individuals from two Solomon Islands provinces. Participants were examined for
clinical signs of trachoma. Conjunctival swabs were collected from all children
aged 1-9 years. We tested swabs for Chlamydia trachomatis (Ct) DNA using droplet 
digital PCR. Chlamydial DNA from positive swabs was enriched and sequenced for
use in phylogenetic analysis.
RESULTS: We observed a moderate prevalence of TF in children aged 1-9 years (n = 
296/1135, 26.1%) but low prevalence of trachomatous inflammation-intense (TI) (n 
= 2/1135, 0.2%) and current Ct infection (n = 13/1002, 1.3%) in children aged 1-9
years, and TT in those aged 15+ years (n = 2/2061, 0.1%). Ten of 13 (76.9%) cases
of infection were in persons with TF or TI (p = 0.0005). Sequence analysis of the
Ct-positive samples yielded 5/13 (38%) complete (>95% coverage of reference)
genome sequences, and 8/13 complete plasmid sequences. Complete sequences all
aligned most closely to ocular serovar reference strains.
DISCUSSION: The low prevalence of TT, TI and Ct infection that we observed are
incongruent with the high proportion of children exhibiting signs of TF. TF is
present at levels that apparently warrant intervention, but the scarcity of other
signs of trachoma indicates the phenotype is mild and may not pose a significant 
public health threat. Our data suggest that, whilst conjunctival Ct infection
appears to be present in the region, it is present at levels that are unlikely to
be the dominant driving force for TF in the population. This could be one reason 
for the low prevalence of TT observed during the study.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0004863 
PMCID: PMC5014345
PMID: 27603015 

Conflict of interest statement: All authors declare that they have no conflicts
of interest.


286. J Med Virol. 2017 Apr;89(4):737-741. doi: 10.1002/jmv.24680. Epub 2016 Sep 14.

Droplet digital PCR to investigate quasi-species at codons 119 and 275 of the
A(H1N1)pdm09 neuraminidase during zanamivir and oseltamivir therapies.

Abed Y(1), Carbonneau J(1), L'Huillier AG(2), Kaiser L(2), Boivin G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research Center in Infectious Diseases of the CHUQ-CHUL and Laval University, 
Québec City, QC, Canada. (2)Laboratory of Virology, University of Geneva
Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland.

The H275Y and E119D neuraminidase (NA) mutations constitute important molecular
markers of resistance to NA inhibitors in A(H1N1) pdm09 viruses. We used reverse 
transcriptase-droplet digital PCR amplification (RT-ddPCR) to analyze
quasi-species at codons 275 and 119 of the NA in A(H1N1) pdm09 viruses recovered 
from an immuncompromised patient who received oseltamivir and zanamivir
therapies. RT-ddPCR assays detected and quantified H275Y and E119D mutations with
an efficiency that was comparable to that of high throughput sequencing (HiSeq
2500 Illumina, San Diego, CA) technology. With its sensitivity and
reproducibility, RT-ddPCR could be a reliable method for accurate detection and
quantification of major NAI-resistance mutations in clinical settings. J. Med.
Virol. 89:737-741, 2017. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.24680 
PMID: 27602879 


287. Onco Targets Ther. 2016 Aug 24;9:5287-95. doi: 10.2147/OTT.S105976. eCollection
2016.

Noninvasive monitoring of the genetic evolution of EGFR-mutant non-small-cell
lung cancer by analyzing circulating tumor DNA during combination chemotherapy
with gefitinib and pemetrexed or S-1.

Nakahara Y(1), Takagi Y(2), Hosomi Y(3), Kagei A(4), Yamamoto T(4), Sawada T(5), 
Yomota M(3), Okuma Y(3), Mikura S(6), Okamura T(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic Oncology and Respiratory Medicine, Tokyo Metropolitan
Cancer and Infectious Diseases Center Komagome Hospital, Tokyo; Department of
Respiratory Medicine, Kitasato University School of Medicine, Sagamihara.
(2)Department of Thoracic Oncology and Respiratory Medicine, Tokyo Metropolitan
Cancer and Infectious Diseases Center Komagome Hospital, Tokyo; Oncology
Scientific Affairs, Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp. (3)Department of Thoracic Oncology 
and Respiratory Medicine, Tokyo Metropolitan Cancer and Infectious Diseases
Center Komagome Hospital, Tokyo. (4)GeneticLab Co., Ltd., Sapporo. (5)Department 
of Medical Oncology, Tokyo Metropolitan Cancer and Infectious Diseases Center
Komagome Hospital, Tokyo. (6)Department of Thoracic Oncology and Respiratory
Medicine, Tokyo Metropolitan Cancer and Infectious Diseases Center Komagome
Hospital, Tokyo; Department of Respiratory Medicine, Fujieda Municipal General
Hospital, Fujieda, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Repetitive genotyping is useful to assess the genetic evolution of
non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) during treatment, but the need for sampling by
biopsy is a major obstacle. Digital polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a
promising procedure for the detection of mutant alleles in plasma of cancer
patients.
METHODS: This prospective study enrolled patients with NSCLC and known epidermal 
growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations and who had experienced disease
progression during ongoing EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy. Eligible
patients received daily gefitinib and either pemetrexed or S-1 every 3 weeks
until disease progression or the development of unacceptable toxicity. Peripheral
blood was collected before and after the combination therapy for digital PCR and 
hepatocyte growth factor measurement.
RESULTS: From May 2012 to January 2014, nine patients with a median age of 67
(range 52-80) years were enrolled. Patterns of disease progression during
adjacent EGFR-TKI therapy were acquired resistance, observed in seven patients,
and primary resistance, observed in two patients. Known EGFR mutations were
detected in plasma samples of six (67%) patients at study enrollment. Of these,
T790M mutation was concurrently detected in three (50%) patients. Four patients
underwent gefitinib plus pemetrexed therapy, and five patients underwent
gefitinib and S-1 therapy. The median number of cycles delivered was five, and
the median progression-free survival was 5.7 months. Efficacy outcomes did not
differ between treatments. After the combination therapy, plasma T790M status
changed to positive in two patients. Hepatocyte growth factor level did not
significantly change through the combination therapy.
CONCLUSION: The usefulness of monitoring the genetic evolution of EGFR-driven
tumors using noninvasive procedures was demonstrated. Since continuation of
EGFR-TKI therapy with cytotoxic agents has an acceptable tolerability and a
possibility of inducing T790M mutation, the combination therapy may be useful for
EGFR-mutant NSCLC resistant to EGFR-TKI therapy without T790M mutation.

DOI: 10.2147/OTT.S105976 
PMCID: PMC5004997
PMID: 27601920 


288. Lung Cancer. 2016 Oct;100:1-4. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2016.07.021. Epub 2016 Jul 
22.

Monitoring KRAS mutations in circulating DNA and tumor cells using digital
droplet PCR during treatment of KRAS-mutated lung adenocarcinoma.

Guibert N(1), Pradines A(2), Farella M(2), Casanova A(2), Gouin S(3), Keller
L(4), Favre G(4), Mazieres J(5).

Author information: 
(1)Thoracic Oncology Department, Larrey Hospital, University Hospital of
Toulouse, France; Inserm, Centre de Recherche en Cancérologie de Toulouse, CRCT
UMR-1037, Toulouse, France; University of Toulouse III (Paul Sabatier), Toulouse,
France. Electronic address: nicolas.guibert@hotmail.fr. (2)Inserm, Centre de
Recherche en Cancérologie de Toulouse, CRCT UMR-1037, Toulouse, France; Institut 
Claudius Regaud, IUCT-Oncopole, Laboratoire de Biologie Médicale Oncologique,
Toulouse, France. (3)Thoracic Oncology Department, Larrey Hospital, University
Hospital of Toulouse, France. (4)Inserm, Centre de Recherche en Cancérologie de
Toulouse, CRCT UMR-1037, Toulouse, France; Institut Claudius Regaud,
IUCT-Oncopole, Laboratoire de Biologie Médicale Oncologique, Toulouse, France;
University of Toulouse III (Paul Sabatier), Toulouse, France. (5)Thoracic
Oncology Department, Larrey Hospital, University Hospital of Toulouse, France;
Inserm, Centre de Recherche en Cancérologie de Toulouse, CRCT UMR-1037, Toulouse,
France; University of Toulouse III (Paul Sabatier), Toulouse, France. Electronic 
address: mazieres.j@chu-toulouse.fr.

Liquid biopsies are a new non-invasive strategy to detect and monitor the biology
of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in the era of personalized medicine. KRAS
is an oncogenic driver that is mutated in 30% of NSCLCs and is associated with a 
poor prognosis. 62 samples from 32 patients, treated for metastatic KRAS-mutated 
lung adenocarcinoma, had DNA extracted from plasma and circulating tumor cells
(CTCs) prospectively tested for the presence of KRAS mutations using droplet
digital PCR. A KRAS mutation was detected in 82% of patients. Sensitivity was 78%
for circulating free DNA (cfDNA) and 34% for CTCs. The presence of a KRAS
mutation in cfDNA was correlated with a poor response to chemotherapy or targeted
therapy. When a KRAS-mutated-DNA was detected and then monitored in cfDNA, its
variation during targeted or conventional therapy was correlated with response,
according to RECIST criteria, in 87.5% of cases (n=14/16), whereas this
correlation was observed in 37.5% of cases for CTCs (n=3/8). We report the
usefulness of using digital droplet PCR on liquid biopsies to predict and monitor
responses to treatment of KRAS-mutated lung adenocarcinoma. ctDNA was much more
sensitive than CTCs in this context.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2016.07.021 
PMID: 27597273 


289. J Virol Methods. 2016 Nov;237:159-165. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2016.08.023. Epub 
2016 Aug 31.

Droplet digital PCR: A novel method for detection of influenza virus defective
interfering particles.

Schwartz SL(1), Lowen AC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Emory University School of
Medicine, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA; Biochemistry, Cell, and Developmental Biology
(BCDB) Program, Graduate Division of Biological Sciences, Emory University School
of Medicine, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. (2)Department of Microbiology and
Immunology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA.
Electronic address: anice.lowen@emory.edu.

Defective interfering (DI) particles are viruses that carry one or more large,
internal deletions in the viral genome. These deletions occur commonly in RNA
viruses due to polymerase error and yield incomplete genomes that typically lack 
essential coding regions. The presence of DI particles in a virus population can 
have a major impact on the efficiency of viral growth and is an important
variable to consider in interpreting experimental results. Herein, we sought to
develop a robust methodology for the quantification of DI particles within
influenza A virus stocks. We took advantage of reverse transcription followed by 
droplet digital PCR (RT ddPCR), a highly sensitive and precise technology for
determination of template concentrations without the use of a standard curve.
Results were compared to those generated using standard RT qPCR. Both assays
relied on the use of primers binding to terminal regions conserved in DI gene
segments described to date, and internal primers targeting regions typically
missing from DI particles. As it has been reported previously, we observed a
lower coefficient of variation among technical replicates for ddPCR compared to
qPCR. Results furthermore established RT ddPCR as a sensitive and quantitative
method for detecting DI gene segments within influenza A virus stocks.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2016.08.023 
PMCID: PMC5056858 [Available on 2017-11-01]
PMID: 27590979 


290. Zhonghua Yi Xue Yi Chuan Xue Za Zhi. 2016 Oct;33(5):594-7. doi:
10.3760/cma.j.issn.1003-9406.2016.05.002.

[Application of droplet digital PCR technology for genetic testing and prenatal
diagnosis of spinal muscular atrophy].

[Article in Chinese]

Zou Y(1), Xu P, Li J, Huang S, Gao M, Kang R, Gao X, Gao Y.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Reproductive Medicine, Shandong University, National Research
Center for Assisted Reproductive Technology and Reproductive Genetics, The Key
Laboratory for Reproductive Endocrindogy of Ministry of Education, Jinan,
Shandong 250000, China. Email: gaoyuan@sduivf.com.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the clinical application of droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) for
genetic testing and prenatal diagnosis of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) with
deletion of SMN1 gene exon 7.
METHODS: A total of 138 clinical samples, including 121 peripheral blood, 13
amniotic fluid, 2 umbilical cord blood and 2 chorionic villi from 56 SMA
families, were tested by both ddPCR and multiplex ligation-dependent probe
amplification (MLPA). Results of the two approaches were analyzed with commercial
software QuantaSoft (ddPCR) and Coffalyser (MLPA), respectively.
RESULTS: Among the 138 cases, 25 had two copies, 84 had one copy, and 29 had null
copy of exon 7 of the SMN1 gene. The results of ddPCR and MLPA were completely
consistent.
CONCLUSION: As a rapid, precise and economically efficient method, ddPCR will
provide a new choice for genetic testing of SMA.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.1003-9406.2016.05.002 
PMID: 27577201  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Cancer Sci. 2016 Nov;107(11):1660-1666. doi: 10.1111/cas.13068.

Tumor volume determines the feasibility of cell-free DNA sequencing for mutation 
detection in non-small cell lung cancer.

Ohira T(1), Sakai K(2), Matsubayashi J(3), Kajiwara N(1), Kakihana M(1), Hagiwara
M(1), Hibi M(2), Yoshida K(1), Maeda J(1), Ohtani K(1), Nagao T(3), Nishio K(2), 
Ikeda N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Tokyo Medical University, Tokyo, Japan. (2)Department
of Genome Biology, Kindai University Faculty of Medicine, Osaka-Sayama, Japan.
(3)Department of Anatomic Pathology, Tokyo Medical University, Tokyo, Japan.

Next-generation sequencing (NGS) and digital PCR technologies allow analysis of
the mutational profile of circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) in individuals with
advanced lung cancer. We have now evaluated the feasibility of cfDNA sequencing
for mutation detection in patients with non-small cell lung cancer at earlier
stages. A total of 150 matched tumor and serum samples were collected from
non-small cell lung cancer patients at stages IA-IIIA. Amplicon sequencing with
DNA extracted from tumor tissue detected frequent mutations in EGFR (37% of
patients), TP53 (39%), and KRAS (10%), consistent with previous findings. In
contrast, NGS of cfDNA identified only EGFR, TP53, and PIK3CA mutations in three,
five, and one patient, respectively, even though adequate amounts of cfDNA were
extracted (median of 4936 copies/mL serum). Next-generation sequencing showed a
high accuracy (98.8%) compared with droplet digital PCR for cfDNA mutation
detection, suggesting that the low frequency of mutations in cfDNA was not due to
a low assay sensitivity. Whereas the yield of cfDNA did not differ among tumor
stages, the cfDNA mutations were detected in seven patients at stages IIA-IIIA
and at T2b or T3. Tumor volume was significantly higher in the cfDNA
mutation-positive patients than in the negative patients at stages T2b-T4
(159.1 ± 58.0 vs. 52.5 ± 9.9 cm(3) , P = 0.014). Our results thus suggest that
tumor volume is a determinant of the feasibility of mutation detection with cfDNA
as the analyte.

© 2016 The Authors. Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd 
on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.

DOI: 10.1111/cas.13068 
PMCID: PMC5132294
PMID: 27575703  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Biomed Khim. 2016 May;62(4):403-10. doi: 10.18097/PBMC20166204403.

[Digital droplet PCR - a prospective technological approach to quantitative
profiling of microRNA].

[Article in Russian; Abstract available in Russian from the publisher]

Kiseleva YY(1), Ptitsyn KG(1), Radko SP(1), Zgoda VG(1), Archakov AI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biomedical Chemistry, Moscow, Russia.

MicroRNA is a special type of regulatory molecules governing gene expression.
Circulating microRNAs found in blood and other biological fluids are considered
today as potential biomarkers of human pathology. Presently, quantitative
alterations of particular microRNAs are revealed for a large number of
oncological diseases and other disorders. The recently emerged method of digital 
droplet PCR (ddPCR) possesses a number of advantages making this method the most 
suitable for verification and validation of perspective microRNA markers of human
pathologies. Among these advantages are the high accuracy and reproducibility of 
microRNA quantification as well as the capability to directly measure the
absolute number of microRNA copies with the large dynamic range and a high
throughput. The paper reviews microRNA biogenesis, the origin of circulating
microRNAs, and methods used for their quantification. The special technical
features of ddPCR, which make it an attractive method both for studying microRNAs
as biomarkers of human pathologies and for basic research devoted to aspects of
gene regulation by microRNA molecules, are also discussed.

Publisher: MikroRNK – osobyĭ klass reguliatornykh molekul, vliiaiushchikh na
ékspressiiu genov. Tsirkuliruiushchie mikroRNK, kotorye obnaruzhivaiut v krovi i 
drugikh biologicheskikh zhidkostiakh, rassmatrivaiutsia segodnia kak
potentsial'nye biomarkery patologiĭ cheloveka. K nastoiashchemu vremeni vyiavleny
kolichestvennye izmeneniia opredelennykh tsirkuliruiushchikh mikroRNK dlia
bol'shogo chisla onkologicheskikh i drugikh zabolevaniĭ. Nedavno poiavivshiĭsia
metod tsifrovoĭ kapel'noĭ PTsR (tskPTsR) obladaet riadom preimushchestv, kotorye 
delaiut ego naibolee podkhodiashchim dlia verifikatsii i validatsii
perspektivnykh mikroRNK-markerov patologiĭ cheloveka. K étim preimushchestvam
otnosiatsia: vysokaia tochnost' i vosproizvodimost' rezul'tatov opredeleniia
kolichestva mikroRNK, a takzhe vozmozhnost' priamogo opredeleniia absoliutnogo
kolichestva kopiĭ mikroRNK v shirokom dinamicheskom diapazone s vysokoĭ
proizvoditel'nost'iu. V rabote rassmotreny biogenez mikroRNK, proiskhozhdenie i
metody kolichestvennoĭ detektsii tsirkuliruiushchikh mikroRNK. Takzhe rassmotreny
tekhnicheskie osobennosti tskPTsR, kotorye delaiut ee privlekatel'nym metodom
dlia ispol'zovaniia kak v issledovaniiakh mikroRNK-markerov razlichnykh patologiĭ
cheloveka, tak i v issledovaniiakh, posviashchennykh fundamental'nym voprosam
reguliatsii gennoĭ ékspressii molekulami mikroRNK.

PMID: 27562993  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Angew Chem Int Ed Engl. 2016 Sep 19;55(39):11797-800. doi:
10.1002/anie.201605994. Epub 2016 Aug 25.

5-Formylcytosine Could Be a Semipermanent Base in Specific Genome Sites.

Su M(1), Kirchner A(1), Stazzoni S(1), Müller M(1), Wagner M(1), Schröder A(1),
Carell T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Integrated Protein Science at the Department of Chemistry,
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Butenandtstrasse 5-13, 81377, München,
Germany. (2)Center for Integrated Protein Science at the Department of Chemistry,
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Butenandtstrasse 5-13, 81377, München,
Germany. thomas.carell@lmu.de.

5-Formyl-2'-deoxycytosine (fdC) is a recently discovered epigenetic base in the
genome of stem cells, with yet unknown functions. Sequencing data show that the
base is enriched in CpG islands of promoters and hence likely involved in the
regulation of transcription during cellular differentiation. fdC is known to be
recognized and excised by the enzyme thymine-DNA-glycosylase (Tdg). As such, fdC 
is believed to function as an intermediate during active demethylation. In order 
to understand the function of the new epigenetic base fdC, it is important to
analyze its formation and removal at defined genomic sites. Here, we report a new
method that combines sequence-specific chemical derivatization of fdC with
droplet digital PCR that enables such analysis. We show initial data, indicating 
that the repair protein Tdg removes only 50 % of the fdCs at a given genomic
site, arguing that fdC is a semipermanent base.

© 2016 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/anie.201605994 
PMID: 27561097 


294. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2016 Nov;408(27):7583-7593. Epub 2016 Aug 24.

Evaluation of the performance of quantitative detection of the Listeria
monocytogenes prfA locus with droplet digital PCR.

Witte AK(1), Fister S(1), Mester P(1), Schoder D(1,)(2), Rossmanith P(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Christian Doppler Laboratory for Monitoring of Microbial Contaminants,
Institute of Milk Hygiene, Department for Farm Animals and Veterinary Public
Health, University of Veterinary Medicine, Veterinärplatz 1, 1210, Vienna,
Austria. (2)Institute of Milk Hygiene, Department for Farm Animals and Veterinary
Public Health, University of Veterinary Medicine, Veterinärplatz 1, 1210, Vienna,
Austria. (3)Christian Doppler Laboratory for Monitoring of Microbial
Contaminants, Institute of Milk Hygiene, Department for Farm Animals and
Veterinary Public Health, University of Veterinary Medicine, Veterinärplatz 1,
1210, Vienna, Austria. peter.rossmanith@vetmeduni.ac.at. (4)Institute of Milk
Hygiene, Department for Farm Animals and Veterinary Public Health, University of 
Veterinary Medicine, Veterinärplatz 1, 1210, Vienna, Austria.
peter.rossmanith@vetmeduni.ac.at.

Fast and reliable pathogen detection is an important issue for human health.
Since conventional microbiological methods are rather slow, there is growing
interest in detection and quantification using molecular methods. The droplet
digital polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR) is a relatively new PCR method for
absolute and accurate quantification without external standards. Using the
Listeria monocytogenes specific prfA assay, we focused on the questions of
whether the assay was directly transferable to ddPCR and whether ddPCR was
suitable for samples derived from heterogeneous matrices, such as foodstuffs that
often included inhibitors and a non-target bacterial background flora. Although
the prfA assay showed suboptimal cluster formation, use of ddPCR for
quantification of L. monocytogenes from pure bacterial cultures, artificially
contaminated cheese, and naturally contaminated foodstuff was satisfactory over a
relatively broad dynamic range. Moreover, results demonstrated the outstanding
detection limit of one copy. However, while poorer DNA quality, such as resulting
from longer storage, can impair ddPCR, internal amplification control (IAC) of
prfA by ddPCR, that is integrated in the genome of L. monocytogenes ΔprfA, showed
even slightly better quantification over a broader dynamic range. Graphical
Abstract Evaluating the absolute quantification potential of ddPCR targeting
Listeria monocytogenes prfA.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-016-9861-9 
PMCID: PMC5061835
PMID: 27558101 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest.


295. Biomol Detect Quantif. 2016 Aug 10;9:14-9. doi: 10.1016/j.bdq.2016.06.004.
eCollection 2016.

Methods for comparing multiple digital PCR experiments.

Burdukiewicz M(1), Rödiger S(2), Sobczyk P(3), Menschikowski M(4), Schierack
P(2), Mackiewicz P(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Wroclaw, Faculty of Biotechnology, Department of Genomics,
Wroclaw, Poland. (2)Institute of Biotechnology, Brandenburg University of
Technology Cottbus - Senftenberg, Senftenberg, Germany. (3)Wrocław University of 
Technology, Institute of Mathematics and Computer Science, Poland. (4)Dresden
University of Technology, Institute of Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory
Medicine, Germany.

The estimated mean copy per partition (λ) is the essential information from a
digital PCR (dPCR) experiment because λ can be used to calculate the target
concentration in a sample. However, little information is available how to
statistically compare dPCR runs of multiple runs or reduplicates. The comparison 
of λ values from several runs is a multiple comparison problem, which can be
solved using the binary structure of dPCR data. We propose and evaluate two novel
methods based on Generalized Linear Models (GLM) and Multiple Ratio Tests (MRT)
for comparison of digital PCR experiments. We enriched our MRT framework with
computation of simultaneous confidence intervals suitable for comparing multiple 
dPCR runs. The evaluation of both statistical methods support that MRT is faster 
and more robust for dPCR experiments performed in large scale. Our theoretical
results were confirmed by the analysis of dPCR measurements of dilution series.
Both methods were implemented in the dpcR package (v. 0.2) for the open source R 
statistical computing environment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bdq.2016.06.004 
PMCID: PMC4983647
PMID: 27551672 


296. Biomol Detect Quantif. 2016 Jun 24;9:1-13. doi: 10.1016/j.bdq.2016.06.001.
eCollection 2016.

Flexible analysis of digital PCR experiments using generalized linear mixed
models.

Vynck M(1), Vandesompele J(2), Nijs N(3), Menten B(4), De Ganck A(3), Thas O(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mathematical Modelling, Statistics and Bioinformatics, Ghent
University, Coupure Links 653, 9000 Ghent, Belgium. (2)Center for Medical
Genetics, Ghent University, De Pintelaan 185, 9000 Ghent, Belgium; Bioinformatics
Institute Ghent N2N, Ghent University, De Pintelaan 185, 9000 Ghent, Belgium;
Biogazelle, Technologiepark 3, 9052 Zwijnaarde, Belgium. (3)Biogazelle,
Technologiepark 3, 9052 Zwijnaarde, Belgium. (4)Center for Medical Genetics,
Ghent University, De Pintelaan 185, 9000 Ghent, Belgium; Bioinformatics Institute
Ghent N2N, Ghent University, De Pintelaan 185, 9000 Ghent, Belgium. (5)Department
of Mathematical Modelling, Statistics and Bioinformatics, Ghent University,
Coupure Links 653, 9000 Ghent, Belgium; National Institute for Applied Statistics
Research Australia (NIASRA), University of Wollongong, NSW 2522, Australia.

The use of digital PCR for quantification of nucleic acids is rapidly growing. A 
major drawback remains the lack of flexible data analysis tools. Published
analysis approaches are either tailored to specific problem settings or fail to
take into account sources of variability. We propose the generalized linear mixed
models framework as a flexible tool for analyzing a wide range of experiments. We
also introduce a method for estimating reference gene stability to improve
accuracy and precision of copy number and relative expression estimates. We
demonstrate the usefulness of the methodology on a complex experimental setup.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bdq.2016.06.001 
PMCID: PMC4983648
PMID: 27551671 


297. Viruses. 2016 Aug 19;8(8). pii: E233. doi: 10.3390/v8080233.

Quantification of HEV RNA by Droplet Digital PCR.

Nicot F(1), Cazabat M(2,)(3), Lhomme S(4,)(5,)(6), Marion O(7,)(8), Sauné
K(9,)(10,)(11), Chiabrando J(12), Dubois M(13,)(14), Kamar N(15,)(16), Abravanel 
F(17,)(18,)(19), Izopet J(20,)(21,)(22).

Author information: 
(1)CHU Toulouse, Hôpital Purpan, Laboratoire de virologie, Institut fédératif de 
biologie, Toulouse F-31300, France. nicot.f@chu-toulouse.fr. (2)CHU Toulouse,
Hôpital Purpan, Laboratoire de virologie, Institut fédératif de biologie,
Toulouse F-31300, France. cazabat.m@chu-toulouse.fr. (3)INSERM, U1043, Centre de 
Physiopathologie de Toulouse Purpan, Toulouse F-31300, France.
cazabat.m@chu-toulouse.fr. (4)CHU Toulouse, Hôpital Purpan, Laboratoire de
virologie, Institut fédératif de biologie, Toulouse F-31300, France.
lhomme.s@chu-toulouse.fr. (5)INSERM, U1043, Centre de Physiopathologie de
Toulouse Purpan, Toulouse F-31300, France. lhomme.s@chu-toulouse.fr.
(6)Université Toulouse III Paul-Sabatier, Faculté de Médecine Toulouse, Toulouse 
F-31300, France. lhomme.s@chu-toulouse.fr. (7)INSERM, U1043, Centre de
Physiopathologie de Toulouse Purpan, Toulouse F-31300, France.
marion-olivier@hotmail.fr. (8)CHU Toulouse, Hôpital Rangueil, Département de
Néphrologie, Dialyse et Transplantation multi-organe, Toulouse F-31300, France.
marion-olivier@hotmail.fr. (9)CHU Toulouse, Hôpital Purpan, Laboratoire de
virologie, Institut fédératif de biologie, Toulouse F-31300, France.
saune.k@chu-toulouse.fr. (10)INSERM, U1043, Centre de Physiopathologie de
Toulouse Purpan, Toulouse F-31300, France. saune.k@chu-toulouse.fr.
(11)Université Toulouse III Paul-Sabatier, Faculté de Médecine Toulouse, Toulouse
F-31300, France. saune.k@chu-toulouse.fr. (12)CHU Toulouse, Hôpital Purpan,
Laboratoire de virologie, Institut fédératif de biologie, Toulouse F-31300,
France. chiabrando.j@chu-toulouse.fr. (13)CHU Toulouse, Hôpital Purpan,
Laboratoire de virologie, Institut fédératif de biologie, Toulouse F-31300,
France. dubois.m@chu-toulouse.fr. (14)INSERM, U1043, Centre de Physiopathologie
de Toulouse Purpan, Toulouse F-31300, France. dubois.m@chu-toulouse.fr.
(15)INSERM, U1043, Centre de Physiopathologie de Toulouse Purpan, Toulouse
F-31300, France. kamar.n@chu-toulouse.fr. (16)CHU Toulouse, Hôpital Rangueil,
Département de Néphrologie, Dialyse et Transplantation multi-organe, Toulouse
F-31300, France. kamar.n@chu-toulouse.fr. (17)CHU Toulouse, Hôpital Purpan,
Laboratoire de virologie, Institut fédératif de biologie, Toulouse F-31300,
France. abravanel.f@chu-toulouse.fr. (18)INSERM, U1043, Centre de
Physiopathologie de Toulouse Purpan, Toulouse F-31300, France.
abravanel.f@chu-toulouse.fr. (19)Université Toulouse III Paul-Sabatier, Faculté
de Médecine Toulouse, Toulouse F-31300, France. abravanel.f@chu-toulouse.fr.
(20)CHU Toulouse, Hôpital Purpan, Laboratoire de virologie, Institut fédératif de
biologie, Toulouse F-31300, France. izopet.j@chu-toulouse.fr. (21)INSERM, U1043, 
Centre de Physiopathologie de Toulouse Purpan, Toulouse F-31300, France.
izopet.j@chu-toulouse.fr. (22)Université Toulouse III Paul-Sabatier, Faculté de
Médecine Toulouse, Toulouse F-31300, France. izopet.j@chu-toulouse.fr.

The sensitivity of real-time PCR for hepatitis E virus (HEV) RNA quantification
differs greatly among techniques. Standardized tools that measure the real
quantity of virus are needed. We assessed the performance of a reverse
transcription droplet digital PCR (RT-ddPCR) assay that gives absolute quantities
of HEV RNA. Analytical and clinical validation was done on HEV genotypes 1, 3 and
4, and was based on open reading frame (ORF)3 amplification. The within-run and
between-run reproducibilities were very good, the analytical sensitivity was 80
HEV RNA international units (IU)/mL and linearities of HEV genotype 1, 3 and 4
were very similar. Clinical validation based on 45 samples of genotype 1, 3 or 4 
gave results that correlated well with a validated reverse transcription
quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) assay (Spearman rs = 0.89, p < 0.0001). The RT-ddPCR
assay is a sensitive method and could be a promising tool for standardizing HEV
RNA quantification in various sample types.

DOI: 10.3390/v8080233 
PMCID: PMC4997595
PMID: 27548205 


298. Oncotarget. 2016 Sep 6;7(36):58492-58499. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.11303.

Detection of the T790M mutation of EGFR in plasma of advanced non-small cell lung
cancer patients with acquired resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (West
Japan oncology group 8014LTR study).

Takahama T(1), Sakai K(2), Takeda M(1), Azuma K(3), Hida T(4), Hirabayashi M(5), 
Oguri T(6), Tanaka H(7), Ebi N(8), Sawa T(9), Bessho A(10), Tachihara M(11),
Akamatsu H(12), Bandoh S(13), Himeji D(14), Ohira T(15), Shimokawa M(16),
Nakanishi Y(17), Nakagawa K(1), Nishio K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Kinki University Faculty of Medicine, Osaka,
Japan. (2)Department of Genome Biology, Kinki University Faculty of Medicine,
Osaka, Japan. (3)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Respirology,
Neurology, and Rheumatology, Kurume University School of Medicine, Kurume,
Fukuoka, Japan. (4)Department of Thoracic Oncology, Aichi Cancer Center, Nagoya, 
Japan. (5)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Hyogo Prefectural Amagasaki General
Medical Center, Hyogo, Japan. (6)Department of Medical Oncology and Immunology,
Nagoya City University Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Nagoya, Japan.
(7)Department of Internal Medicine, Niigata Cancer Center Hospital, Niigata,
Japan. (8)Department of Respiratory Oncology, Iizuka Hospital, Fukuoka, Japan.
(9)Department of Respiratory Medicine and Oncology, Gifu Municipal Hospital,
Gifu, Japan. (10)Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Japanese Red Cross Okayama
Hospital, Okayama, Japan. (11)Division of Respiratory Medicine, Department of
Internal Medicine, Kobe University Graduate School of Medicine, Hyogo, Japan.
(12)Third Department of Internal Medicine, Wakayama Medical University, Wakayama,
Japan. (13)Division of Hematology, Rheumatology, and Respiratory Medicine,
Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Kagawa University, Kagawa, 
Japan. (14)Department of Internal Medicine, Miyazaki Prefectural Miyazaki
Hospital, Miyazaki, Japan. (15)Department of Surgery, Tokyo Medical University,
Tokyo, Japan. (16)Department of Cancer Information Research, National Kyushu
Cancer Center, Fukuoka, Japan. (17)Research Institute for Diseases of the Chest, 
Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan.

INTRODUCTION: Next-generation epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine
kinase inhibitors (TKIs) have been developed to overcome resistance to earlier
generations of such drugs mediated by a secondary T790M mutation of EGFR, but the
performance of a second tumor biopsy to assess T790M mutation status can be
problematic.
METHODS: We developed and evaluated liquid biopsy assays for detection of
TKI-sensitizing and T790M mutations of EGFR by droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) in
EGFR mutation-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients with acquired 
EGFR-TKI resistance.
RESULTS: A total of 260 patients was enrolled between November 2014 and March
2015 at 29 centers for this West Japan Oncology Group (WJOG 8014LTR) study.
Plasma specimens from all subjects as well as tumor tissue or malignant pleural
effusion or ascites fluid from 41 patients were collected after the development
of EGFR-TKI resistance. All plasma samples were genotyped successfully and the
results were reported to physicians within 14 days. TKI-sensitizing and T790M
mutations were detected in plasma of 120 (46.2%) and 75 (28.8%) patients,
respectively. T790M was detected in 56.7% of patients with plasma positive for
TKI-sensitizing mutations. For the 41 patients with paired samples obtained after
acquisition of EGFR-TKI resistance, the concordance for mutation detection by
ddPCR in plasma compared with tumor tissue or malignant fluid specimens was 78.0%
for TKI-sensitizing mutations and 65.9% for T790M.
CONCLUSIONS: Noninvasive genotyping by ddPCR with cell-free DNA extracted from
plasma is a promising approach to the detection of gene mutations during targeted
treatment.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.11303 
PMCID: PMC5295446
PMID: 27542267 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no potential conflicts of
interest.


299. BMC Biotechnol. 2016 Aug 18;16(1):60. doi: 10.1186/s12896-016-0292-7.

A comparison between quantitative PCR and droplet digital PCR technologies for
circulating microRNA quantification in human lung cancer.

Campomenosi P(1,)(2), Gini E(3,)(4), Noonan DM(3,)(5), Poli A(6), D'Antona
P(3,)(4), Rotolo N(4), Dominioni L(4), Imperatori A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Life Sciences (DBSV) and "The Protein
Factory", University of Insubria, Via JH Dunant, 3, 21100, Varese, Italy.
paola.campomenosi@uninsubria.it. (2)The Protein Factory, Centro
Interuniversitario di Ricerca in Biotecnologie Proteiche, Politecnico di Milano, 
ICRM-CNR Milano and University of Insubria, Varese, Italy.
paola.campomenosi@uninsubria.it. (3)Department of Biotechnology and Life Sciences
(DBSV) and "The Protein Factory", University of Insubria, Via JH Dunant, 3,
21100, Varese, Italy. (4)Department of Surgical Sciences and Human Morphology,
DSCM, University of Insubria, Via Guicciardini, 9, 21100, Varese, Italy.
(5)Scientific and Technological Pole, IRCCS MultiMedica, Milan, Italy.
(6)Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of Verona,
Verona, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Selected microRNAs (miRNAs) that are abnormally expressed in the
serum of patients with lung cancer have recently been proposed as biomarkers of
this disease. The measurement of circulating miRNAs, however, requires a highly
reliable quantification method. Quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) is the most
commonly used method, but it lacks reliable endogenous reference miRNAs for
normalization of results in biofluids. When used in absolute quantification, it
must rely on the use of external calibrators. Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) is a
recently introduced technology that overcomes the normalization issue and may
facilitate miRNA measurement. Here we compared the performance of absolute qPCR
and ddPCR techniques for quantifying selected miRNAs in the serum.
RESULTS: In the first experiment, three miRNAs, proposed in the literature as
lung cancer biomarkers (miR-21, miR-126 and let-7a), were analyzed in a set of 15
human serum samples. Four independent qPCR and four independent ddPCR
amplifications were done on the same samples and used to estimate the precision
and correlation of miRNA measurements obtained with the two techniques. The
precision of the two methods was evaluated by calculating the Coefficient of
Variation (CV) of the four independent measurements obtained with each technique.
The CV was similar or smaller in ddPCR than in qPCR for all miRNAs tested, and
was significantly smaller for let-7a (p = 0.028). Linear regression analysis of
the miRNA values obtained with qPCR and ddPCR showed strong correlation
(p < 0.001). To validate the correlation obtained with the two techniques in the 
first experiment, in a second experiment the same miRNAs were measured in a
larger cohort (70 human serum samples) by both qPCR and ddPCR. The correlation of
miRNA analyses with the two methods was significant for all three miRNAs.
Moreover, in our experiments the ddPCR technique had higher throughput than qPCR,
at a similar cost-per-sample.
CONCLUSIONS: Analyses of serum miRNAs performed with qPCR and ddPCR were largely 
concordant. Both qPCR and ddPCR can reliably be used to quantify circulating
miRNAs, however, ddPCR revealed similar or greater precision and higher
throughput of analysis.

DOI: 10.1186/s12896-016-0292-7 
PMCID: PMC4991011
PMID: 27538962 


300. Beijing Da Xue Xue Bao. 2016 Feb 18;48(1):686-91.

[EDA mutation screening and phenotype analysis in patients with tooth agenesis].

[Article in Chinese]

He HY(1), Liu Y(2), Han D(2), Liu HC(2), Bai BJ(3), Feng HL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, Peking University School and Hospital of
Stomatology & National Engineering Laboratory for Digital and Material Technology
of Stomatology & Beijing Key Laboratory of Digital Stomatology, Beijing 100081,
China; Department of Stomatology, Beijing Tsinghua Changgung Hospital, Beijing
102218, China. (2)Department of Prosthodontics, Peking University School and
Hospital of Stomatology & National Engineering Laboratory for Digital and
Material Technology of Stomatology & Beijing Key Laboratory of Digital
Stomatology, Beijing 100081, China. (3)Department of Prosthodontics, Beijing
Stomatological Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing 100050, China.

OBJECTIVE: To screen the ectodysplasin A (EDA) gene mutation in the patients with
non-syndromic tooth agenesis and ectodermal dysplasia, and to analyze the
phenotype of missing teeth pattern in these two groups of patients.
METHODS: In the study, 174 patients with tooth agenesis (143: non-syndromic, 31: 
ectodermal dysplasia) and 451 health control volunteers were enrolled from the
clinic, and the genome DNA was extracted from either peripheral blood or oral
mucosal swab. The coding region of EDA gene was then amplified by PCR, sequenced 
and blasted to online NCBI database. The missing teeth were recorded for all
patients, and the missing teeth from patients with EDA mutation were compared
among the different dentition sites.
RESULTS: 33 patients were identified with EDA mutation. In the non-syndromic
patients, 13/143(9.09%) were identified with EDA mutation, while in patients with
ectodermal dysplasia, 20/31(64.52%) were found with EDA mutation. Ten novel EDA
mutations were identified (c.769G>C[p.G257R ],c.936C>G[p.I312M],c.223G>A[p.E75K],
.1166C>T[p.P389L],c.133G>C[p.G45R],c.1109G>A[p.E370K],c.914G>T[p.S305I],
c.916C>T[p.Q306X],c.602G>T[p.G201V],c.88-89insG[p.A30GfsX69]). For each dentition
site there was no statistic difference in the number of missing teeth between the
left and right sides, so the number from both sides were combined later in the
analysis. In the patients with EDA mutation, the non-syndromic patients had fewer
missing teeth (15.9±6.4 missing teeth for each, 207/364 in total) than the
patients with ectodermal dysplasia (23.9±4.3, 478/560). In the non-syndromic
patients with EDA mutation, the maxillay central incisors and first molars were
less affected, with the same missing rate as 19.2% (5/26). While the mandibular
central incisors (with a missing rate of 76.9%, 20/26), the maxillary lateral
incisors (the missing rate: 88.5%, 23/26), the mandibular lateral incisors (the
missing rate: 80.8%, 21/26), and the maxillary first premolars (the missing rate:
80.8%, 21/26) were more likely to be missing. In the ectodermal dysplasia
patients with EDA mutation, only maxillary central incisors (the missing rate:
60%, 24/40), maxillary canines (the missing rate: 70%, 28/40), mandibular canines
(the missing rate: 67.5%, 27/40), maxillary first molars (the missing rate: 65%, 
26/40) and mandibular first molars (the missing rate: 72.5%, 29/40) had higher
possibility of persistence. Teeth at other dentition sites were more likely to be
affected (the minimum missing rate: 87.5%, 35/40).
CONCLUSION: The findings would help to reveal the EDA gene and its function in
ectodermal organogenesis.


PMID: 27538153 


301. PLoS One. 2016 Aug 18;11(8):e0161274. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0161274.
eCollection 2016.

A Robust Protocol for Using Multiplexed Droplet Digital PCR to Quantify Somatic
Copy Number Alterations in Clinical Tissue Specimens.

Hughesman CB(1,)(2), Lu XJ(1), Liu KY(1), Zhu Y(1), Poh CF(1,)(3,)(4), Haynes
C(2,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oral Medical Biological Sciences, Faculty of Dentistry,
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, V6T 1Z3, Canada.
(2)Michael Smith Laboratories, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British
Columbia, V6T 1Z4, Canada. (3)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine,
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, V6T 2B5, Canada.
(4)Department of Integrative Oncology, British Columbia Cancer Research Centre,
Vancouver, British Columbia, V5Z 1L3, Canada. (5)RES'EAU NSERC Research Network, 
Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, University of British
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, V6T 1Z3, Canada.

The ability of droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) to accurately determine the
concentrations of amplifiable targets makes it a promising platform for measuring
copy number alterations (CNAs) in genomic biomarkers. However, its application to
clinical samples, particularly formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded specimens, will
require strategies to reliably determine CNAs in DNA of limited quantity and
quality. When applied to cancerous tissue, those methods must also account for
global genetic instability and the associated probability that the abundance(s)
of one or more chosen reference loci do not represent the average ploidy of cells
comprising the specimen. Here we present an experimental design strategy and
associated data analysis tool that enables accurate determination of CNAs in a
panel of biomarkers using multiplexed ddPCR. The method includes strategies to
optimize primer and probes design to cleanly segregate droplets in the data
output from reaction wells amplifying multiple independent templates, and to
correct for bias from artifacts such as DNA fragmentation. We demonstrate how a
panel of reference loci can be used to determine a stable CNA-neutral benchmark. 
These innovations, when taken together, provide a comprehensive strategy that can
be used to reliably detect biomarker CNAs in DNA extracted from either frozen or 
FFPE tissue biopsies.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0161274 
PMCID: PMC4990255
PMID: 27537682 


302. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Aug 1;57(10):4063-75. doi: 10.1167/iovs.16-19726.

Somatic Variants in the Human Lens Epithelium: A Preliminary Assessment.

Mesa R(1), Tyagi M(2), Harocopos G(3), Vollman D(1), Bassnett S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Washington University School 
of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, United States. (2)Genome Technology Access
Center, Department of Genetics, Washington University School of Medicine, St.
Louis, Missouri, United States. (3)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual
Sciences, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, United
States 3Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, United States.

PURPOSE: We hypothesize that somatic mutations accumulate in cells of the human
lens and may contribute to the development of cortical or posterior sub-capsular 
cataracts. Here, we used a Next-generation sequencing (NGS) strategy to screen
for low-allelic frequency variants in DNA extracted from human lens epithelial
samples.
METHODS: Next-Generation sequencing of 151 cancer-related genes (WUCaMP2 panel)
was performed on DNA extracted from post-mortem or surgical specimens obtained
from 24 individuals. Usually, pairwise comparisons were made between two or more 
ocular samples from the same individual, allowing putative somatic variants
detected in lens samples to be differentiated from germline variants.
RESULTS: Use of a targeted hybridization approach enabled high sequence coverage 
(>1000-fold) of the WUCaMP2 genes. In addition to high-frequency variants
(corresponding to homozygous or heterozygous SNPs and Indels), somatic variants
with allelic frequencies of 1-4% were detected in the lens epithelial samples.
The presence of one such variant, a T > C point substitution at position 32907082
in BRCA2, was verified subsequently using droplet digital PCR.
CONCLUSIONS: Low-allelic fraction variants are present in the human lens
epithelium, at frequencies consistent with the presence of millimeter-sized
clones.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.16-19726 
PMCID: PMC4986767
PMID: 27537255 


303. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Aug 1;57(10):3974-81. doi: 10.1167/iovs.16-19688.

A Common Variant in MIR182 Is Associated With Primary Open-Angle Glaucoma in the 
NEIGHBORHOOD Consortium.

Liu Y(1), Bailey JC(2), Helwa I(3), Dismuke WM(4), Cai J(3), Drewry M(3),
Brilliant MH(5), Budenz DL(6), Christen WG(7), Chasman DI(7), Fingert JH(8),
Gaasterland D(9), Gaasterland T(10), Gordon MO(11), Igo RP Jr(2), Kang JH(12),
Kass MA(11), Kraft P(13), Lee RK(14), Lichter P(15), Moroi SE(15), Realini A(16),
Richards JE(15), Ritch R(17), Schuman JS(18), Scott WK(19), Singh K(20), Sit
AJ(21), Song YE(2), Vollrath D(20), Weinreb R(22), Medeiros F(22), Wollstein
G(18), Zack DJ(23), Zhang K(22), Pericak-Vance MA(19), Gonzalez P(4), Stamer
WD(4), Kuchtey J(24), Kuchtey RW(24), Allingham RR(4), Hauser MA(25), Pasquale
LR(26), Haines JL(2), Wiggs JL(27).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular Biology and Anatomy Augusta University, Augusta,
Georgia, United States 2James & Jean Culver Vision Discovery Institute, Augusta
University, Augusta, Georgia, United States 3Center for Biotechnology and Genomic
Medicine, Augusta Uni. (2)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Case
Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, United States. (3)Department of
Cellular Biology and Anatomy Augusta University, Augusta, Georgia, United States.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North
Carolina, United States. (5)Center for Human Genetics, Marshfield Clinic Research
Foundation, Marshfield, Wisconsin, United States. (6)Department of Ophthalmology,
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States.
(7)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts,
United States. (8)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Carver College
of Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa, United States. (9)The Emmes
Corporation, Rockville, Maryland, United States. (10)Scripps Genome Center,
University of California at San Diego, San Diego, California, United States.
(11)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Washington University School
of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, United States. (12)Channing Division of Network
Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, United States.
(13)School of Public Health, Harvard University, Boston, Massachusetts, United
States. (14)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami Miller School of
Medicine, Miami, Florida, United States. (15)Department of Ophthalmology and
Visual Sciences, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, United States.
(16)Department of Ophthalmology, West Virginia University Eye Institute,
Morgantown, West Virginia, United States. (17)Einhorn Clinical Research Center,
New York Eye and Ear Infirmary of Mount Sinai, New York, New York, United States.
(18)Department of Ophthalmology, UPMC Eye Center, University of Pittsburgh,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States. (19)Hussman Institute for Human
Genomics, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida, United
States. (20)Department of Ophthalmology, Stanford University, Palo Alto,
California, United States. (21)Department of Ophthalmology, Mayo Clinic,
Rochester, Minnesota, United States. (22)Department of Ophthalmology and Hamilton
Glaucoma Center, University of California, San Diego, California, United States. 
(23)Wilmer Eye Institute, Johns Hopkins University Hospital, Baltimore, Maryland,
United States. (24)Vanderbilt Eye Institute, Vanderbilt University Medical
Center, Nashville, Tennessee, United States. (25)Department of Ophthalmology,
Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina, United States
26Department of Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina,
United States. (26)Channing Division of Network Medicine, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, United States 27Department of Ophthalmology,
Mass Eye & Ear, Boston, Massachusetts, United States. (27)Department of
Ophthalmology, Mass Eye & Ear, Boston, Massachusetts, United States.

PURPOSE: Noncoding microRNAs (miRNAs) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of
glaucoma. We aimed to identify common variants in miRNA coding genes (MIR)
associated with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).
METHODS: Using the NEIGHBORHOOD data set (3853 cases/33,480 controls with
European ancestry), we first assessed the relation between 85 variants in 76 MIR 
genes and overall POAG. Subtype-specific analyses were performed in high-tension 
glaucoma (HTG) and normal-tension glaucoma subsets. Second, we examined the
expression of miR-182, which was associated with POAG, in postmortem human ocular
tissues (ciliary body, cornea, retina, and trabecular meshwork [TM]), using miRNA
sequencing (miRNA-Seq) and droplet digital PCR (ddPCR). Third, miR-182 expression
was also examined in human aqueous humor (AH) by using miRNA-Seq. Fourth,
exosomes secreted from primary human TM cells were examined for miR-182
expression by using miRNA-Seq. Fifth, using ddPCR we compared miR-182 expression 
in AH between five HTG cases and five controls.
RESULTS: Only rs76481776 in MIR182 gene was associated with POAG after adjustment
for multiple comparisons (odds ratio [OR] = 1.23, 95% confidence interval [CI]:
1.11-1.42, P = 0.0002). Subtype analysis indicated that the association was
primarily in the HTG subset (OR = 1.26, 95% CI: 1.08-1.47, P = 0.004). The risk
allele T has been associated with elevated miR-182 expression in vitro. Data from
ddPCR and miRNA-Seq confirmed miR-182 expression in all examined ocular tissues
and TM-derived exosomes. Interestingly, miR-182 expression in AH was 2-fold
higher in HTG patients than nonglaucoma controls (P = 0.03) without controlling
for medication treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Our integrative study is the first to associate rs76481776 with POAG
via elevated miR-182 expression.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.16-19688 
PMID: 27537254 


304. Front Microbiol. 2016 Aug 3;7:1183. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2016.01183. eCollection
2016.

Quantification of Hepatitis E Virus in Naturally-Contaminated Pig Liver Products.

Martin-Latil S(1), Hennechart-Collette C(1), Delannoy S(1), Guillier L(1), Fach
P(1), Perelle S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Université Paris Est (ANSES), Laboratory for Food Safety Maisons-Alfort,
France.

Hepatitis E virus (HEV), the cause of self-limiting acute hepatitis in humans, is
widespread and endemic in many parts of the world. The foodborne transmission of 
HEV has become of concern due to the identification of undercooked pork products 
as a risk factor for infection. Foodborne enteric viruses are conventionally
processed by quantitative RT-PCR (RT-qPCR), which gives sensitive and
quantitative detection results. Recently, digital PCR (dPCR) has been described
as a novel approach to genome quantification with no need for a standard curve.
The performance of microfluidic digital RT-PCR (RT-dPCR) was compared to RT-qPCR 
when detecting HEV in pig liver products. The sensitivity of the RT-dPCR assay
was similar to that of RT-qPCR, and quantitative data obtained by both detection 
methods were not significantly different for almost all samples. This absolute
quantification approach may be useful for standardizing quantification of HEV in 
food samples and may be extended to quantifying other human pathogens in food
samples.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2016.01183 
PMCID: PMC4971014
PMID: 27536278 


305. J Clin Microbiol. 2016 Oct;54(10):2602-8. doi: 10.1128/JCM.01474-16. Epub 2016
Aug 17.

Comparative Performance of Reagents and Platforms for Quantitation of
Cytomegalovirus DNA by Digital PCR.

Hayden RT(1), Gu Z(2), Sam SS(3), Sun Y(4), Tang L(4), Pounds S(4), Caliendo
AM(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis,
Tennessee, USA Randall.Hayden@stjude.org. (2)Department of Pathology, St. Jude
Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee, USA. (3)Miriam Hospital,
Providence, Rhode Island, USA. (4)Department of Biostatistics, St. Jude
Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee, USA. (5)Department of Medicine,
Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island, USA.

A potential benefit of digital PCR is a reduction in result variability across
assays and platforms. Three sets of PCR reagents were tested on two digital PCR
systems (Bio-Rad and RainDance), using three different sets of PCR reagents for
quantitation of cytomegalovirus (CMV). Both commercial quantitative viral
standards and 16 patient samples (n = 16) were tested. Quantitative accuracy
(compared to nominal values) and variability were determined based on viral
standard testing results. Quantitative correlation and variability were assessed 
with pairwise comparisons across all reagent-platform combinations for clinical
plasma sample results. The three reagent sets, when used to assay quantitative
standards on the Bio-Rad system, all showed a high degree of accuracy, low
variability, and close agreement with one another. When used on the RainDance
system, one of the three reagent sets appeared to have a much better correlation 
to nominal values than did the other two. Quantitative results for patient
samples showed good correlation in most pairwise comparisons, with some showing
poorer correlations when testing samples with low viral loads. Digital PCR is a
robust method for measuring CMV viral load. Some degree of result variation may
be seen, depending on platform and reagents used; this variation appears to be
greater in samples with low viral load values.

Copyright © 2016, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.01474-16 
PMCID: PMC5035403 [Available on 2017-04-01]
PMID: 27535685 


306. Helicobacter. 2016 Sep;21 Suppl 1:8-13. doi: 10.1111/hel.12333.

Diagnostic of Helicobacter pylori infection.

Mégraud F(1), Floch P(1), Labenz J(2), Lehours P(1).

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U1053, University of Bordeaux, 146 rue Léo Saignat, Bordeaux Cedex,
France. (2)Diakonie Klinikum, Jung-Stilling Hospital, Siegen, Germany.

There is progress in endoscopy techniques. While it is not yet possible to detect
Helicobacter pylori directly in the stomach, it becomes easier to detect the
mucosal changes induced by the bacteria. Some small changes can also increase the
sensitivity of the invasive tests, for example culture or histology, but the wide
use of proton-pump inhibitors has a negative impact on these tests. Only
molecular methods are able to detect a limited load of bacteria, especially by
using real-time PCR but also with new methods, for example dual-priming
oligonucleotide-based PCR, loop-medicated isothermal amplification,
droplet-digital PCR or a multiple genetic analysis system. Among the noninvasive 
tests, urea breath test remains a test of major interest, while there are
attempts to develop an ammonia breath test and other nanosensor devices. A new
antigen stool test, a chemoluminescence immunoassay using the LIAISON apparatus
has also been tested for the first time with success. Despite its limitations,
serology remains the most popular test to detect H. pylori antibodies. It also
allows pepsinogen dosage which is of interest for detecting atrophy.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hel.12333 
PMID: 27531532  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Biosensors (Basel). 2016 Aug 5;6(3). pii: E41. doi: 10.3390/bios6030041.

Microfluidic Devices for Forensic DNA Analysis: A Review.

Bruijns B(1,)(2), van Asten A(3,)(4), Tiggelaar R(5), Gardeniers H(6).

Author information: 
(1)Mesoscale Chemical Systems, MESA+ Institute for Nanotechnology, University of 
Twente, Drienerlolaan 5, Enschede 7500 AE, The Netherlands.
b.b.bruijns@utwente.nl. (2)Life Science, Engineering and Design, Saxion
University of Applied Sciences, M. H. Tromplaan 28, Enschede 7513 AB, The
Netherlands. b.b.bruijns@utwente.nl. (3)Netherlands Forensic Institute, Laan van 
Ypenburg 6, The Hague 2497 GB, The Netherlands. clhc-science@uva.nl. (4)Co van
Ledden Hulsebosch Center, Amsterdam Center for Forensic Science and Medicine,
University of Amsterdam, Science Park-Building 904, Amsterdam 1098 XH, The
Netherlands. clhc-science@uva.nl. (5)Mesoscale Chemical Systems, MESA+ Institute 
for Nanotechnology, University of Twente, Drienerlolaan 5, Enschede 7500 AE, The 
Netherlands. r.m.tiggelaar@utwente.nl. (6)Mesoscale Chemical Systems, MESA+
Institute for Nanotechnology, University of Twente, Drienerlolaan 5, Enschede
7500 AE, The Netherlands. j.g.e.gardeniers@utwente.nl.

Microfluidic devices may offer various advantages for forensic DNA analysis, such
as reduced risk of contamination, shorter analysis time and direct application at
the crime scene. Microfluidic chip technology has already proven to be functional
and effective within medical applications, such as for point-of-care use. In the 
forensic field, one may expect microfluidic technology to become particularly
relevant for the analysis of biological traces containing human DNA. This would
require a number of consecutive steps, including sample work up, DNA
amplification and detection, as well as secure storage of the sample. This
article provides an extensive overview of microfluidic devices for cell lysis,
DNA extraction and purification, DNA amplification and detection and analysis
techniques for DNA. Topics to be discussed are polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
on-chip, digital PCR (dPCR), isothermal amplification on-chip, chip materials,
integrated devices and commercially available techniques. A critical overview of 
the opportunities and challenges of the use of chips is discussed, and
developments made in forensic DNA analysis over the past 10-20 years with
microfluidic systems are described. Areas in which further research is needed are
indicated in a future outlook.

DOI: 10.3390/bios6030041 
PMCID: PMC5039660
PMID: 27527231  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


308. Int J Mol Sci. 2016 Aug 4;17(8). pii: E1264. doi: 10.3390/ijms17081264.

Droplet Digital PCR Based Androgen Receptor Variant 7 (AR-V7) Detection from
Prostate Cancer Patient Blood Biopsies.

Ma Y(1), Luk A(2), Young FP(3,)(4), Lynch D(5,)(6), Chua W(7), Balakrishnar B(8),
de Souza P(9,)(10,)(11,)(12), Becker TM(13,)(14,)(15).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Circulating Tumor Cell Diagnostics and Research, Ingham Institute
for Applied Medical Research, 1 Campbell St., Liverpool, NSW 2170, Australia.
yafeng.ma@unsw.edu.au. (2)Centre for Circulating Tumor Cell Diagnostics and
Research, Ingham Institute for Applied Medical Research, 1 Campbell St.,
Liverpool, NSW 2170, Australia. alison.luk@unsw.edu.au. (3)Centre for Circulating
Tumor Cell Diagnostics and Research, Ingham Institute for Applied Medical
Research, 1 Campbell St., Liverpool, NSW 2170, Australia.
francis.young@student.unsw.edu.au. (4)South Western Clinical School, University
of New South Wales, Goulburn St., Liverpool, NSW 2170, Australia.
francis.young@student.unsw.edu.au. (5)Centre for Circulating Tumor Cell
Diagnostics and Research, Ingham Institute for Applied Medical Research, 1
Campbell St., Liverpool, NSW 2170, Australia.
18292682@student.westernsydney.edu.au. (6)Western Sydney University Clinical
School, Elizabeth St., Liverpool, NSW 2170, Australia.
18292682@student.westernsydney.edu.au. (7)Department of Medical Oncology,
Liverpool Hospital, Elizabeth St & Goulburn St., Liverpool, NSW 2170, Australia. 
Wei.Chua2@sswahs.nsw.gov.au. (8)Department of Medical Oncology, Liverpool
Hospital, Elizabeth St & Goulburn St., Liverpool, NSW 2170, Australia.
Bavanthi.Balakrishna@sswahs.nsw.gov.au. (9)Centre for Circulating Tumor Cell
Diagnostics and Research, Ingham Institute for Applied Medical Research, 1
Campbell St., Liverpool, NSW 2170, Australia. P.DeSouza@westernsydney.edu.au.
(10)South Western Clinical School, University of New South Wales, Goulburn St.,
Liverpool, NSW 2170, Australia. P.DeSouza@westernsydney.edu.au. (11)Western
Sydney University Clinical School, Elizabeth St., Liverpool, NSW 2170, Australia.
P.DeSouza@westernsydney.edu.au. (12)Department of Medical Oncology, Liverpool
Hospital, Elizabeth St & Goulburn St., Liverpool, NSW 2170, Australia.
P.DeSouza@westernsydney.edu.au. (13)Centre for Circulating Tumor Cell Diagnostics
and Research, Ingham Institute for Applied Medical Research, 1 Campbell St.,
Liverpool, NSW 2170, Australia. t.becker@unsw.edu.au. (14)South Western Clinical 
School, University of New South Wales, Goulburn St., Liverpool, NSW 2170,
Australia. t.becker@unsw.edu.au. (15)Western Sydney University Clinical School,
Elizabeth St., Liverpool, NSW 2170, Australia. t.becker@unsw.edu.au.

Androgen receptor splice variant V7 (AR-V7) was recently identified as a valuable
predictive biomarker in metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer. Here, we
report a new, sensitive and accurate screen for AR-V7 mRNA expression directly
from circulating tumor cells (CTCs): We combined EpCAM-based immunomagnetic CTC
isolation using the IsoFlux microfluidic platform with droplet digital polymerase
chain reaction (ddPCR) to analyze total AR and AR-V7 expression from prostate
cancer patients CTCs. We demonstrate that AR-V7 is reliably detectable in
enriched CTC samples with as little as five CTCs, even considering tumor
heterogeneity, and confirm detection of AR-V7 in CTC samples from advanced
prostate cancer (PCa) patients with AR-V7 detection limited to castrate resistant
disease status in our sample set. Sensitive molecular analyses of circulating
tumor cells (CTCs) or circulating tumor nucleic acids present exciting strategies
to detect biomarkers, such as AR-V7 from non-invasive blood samples, so-called
blood biopsies.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms17081264 
PMCID: PMC5000662
PMID: 27527157  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Chemosphere. 2016 Nov;163:125-32. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2016.07.091. Epub
2016 Aug 11.

Transcriptomic responses of Perna viridis embryo to Benzo(a)pyrene exposure
elucidated by RNA sequencing.

Jiang X(1), Qiu L(1), Zhao H(2), Song Q(3), Zhou H(4), Han Q(1), Diao X(5).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of South China Sea Marine Resource Utilization, Hainan
University, Haikou, 570228, China; College of Agriculture, Hainan University,
Haikou, 570228, China. (2)State Key Laboratory of South China Sea Marine Resource
Utilization, Hainan University, Haikou, 570228, China; College of Environment and
Plant Protection, Hainan University, Haikou 570228, China. (3)College of
Agriculture, Hainan University, Haikou, 570228, China. (4)State Key Laboratory of
South China Sea Marine Resource Utilization, Hainan University, Haikou, 570228,
China; College of Agriculture, Hainan University, Haikou, 570228, China.
Electronic address: zhouhl@hainu.edu.cn. (5)State Key Laboratory of South China
Sea Marine Resource Utilization, Hainan University, Haikou, 570228, China;
College of Agriculture, Hainan University, Haikou, 570228, China; College of
Environment and Plant Protection, Hainan University, Haikou 570228, China.
Electronic address: diaoxip@hainu.edu.cn.

The green mussel Perna viridis is an ideal biomonitor to evaluate marine
environmental pollution. Benzo(a)pyrene (BaP) is a typical polycyclic aromatic
hydrocarbon (PAH), which is well known for the mutagenic and carcinogenic
characteristics. However, the toxicological effects of BaP on Perna viridis
embryo are still unclear. In this study, we investigated the embryo
transcriptomic profile of Perna viridis treated with BaP via digital gene
expression analysis. A total of 92,362,742 reads were produced from two groups
(control and BaP exposure) by whole transcriptome sequencing (RNA-Seq). Gene
Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopaedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway
analysis were used on all genes to determine the biological functions and
processes. Genes involved in various molecular pathways of toxicological effects 
were enriched further. The differential expression genes (DEGs) were related to
stress response, infectious disease and innate immunity. Quantitative real-time
PCR (qRT-PCR) measured expressional levels of six genes confirmed through the DGE
analysis. This study reveals that RNA-seq for transcriptome profiling of P.
viridis embryo can better understand the embryo toxic effects of BaP.
Furthermore, it also suggests that RNA-seq is a superior tool for generating
novel and valuable information for revealing the toxic effects caused by BaP at
transcriptional level.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2016.07.091 
PMID: 27522184  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Retrovirology. 2016 Aug 12;13(1):56. doi: 10.1186/s12977-016-0290-9.

Development of neurologic diseases in a patient with primate T lymphotropic virus
type 1 (PTLV-1).

Enose-Akahata Y(1), Caruso B(1), Haner B(1), Charlip E(1), Nair G(2), Massoud
R(1), Billioux BJ(1), Ohayon J(1), Switzer WM(3), Jacobson S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Viral Immunology Section, Neuroimmunology Branch, National Institute of
Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, 9000 Rockville 
Pike, Building 10 Room 5C-103, Bethesda, MD, 20892, USA. (2)Translational
Neuroradiology Unit, Neuroimmunology Branch, National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(3)Laboratory Branch, Division of HIV/AIDS, National Center for HIV, Hepatitis,
STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA, 
30329, USA. (4)Viral Immunology Section, Neuroimmunology Branch, National
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health,
9000 Rockville Pike, Building 10 Room 5C-103, Bethesda, MD, 20892, USA.
jacobsons@ninds.nih.gov.

BACKGROUND: Virus transmission from various wild and domestic animals contributes
to an increased risk of emerging infectious diseases in human populations. HTLV-1
is a human retrovirus associated with acute T-cell leukemia and HTLV-1-associated
myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP). HTLV-1 originated from ancient
zoonotic transmission from nonhuman primates, although cases of zoonotic
infections continue to occur. Similar to HTLV-1, the simian counterpart, STLV-1, 
causes chronic infection and leukemia and lymphoma in naturally infected monkeys,
and combined are called primate T-lymphotropic viruses (PTLV-1). However, other
clinical syndromes typically seen in humans such as a chronic progressive
myelopathy have not been observed in nonhuman primates. Little is known about the
development of neurologic and inflammatory diseases in human populations infected
with STLV-1-like viruses following nonhuman primate exposure.
RESULTS: We performed detailed laboratory analyses on an HTLV-1 seropositive
patient with typical HAM/TSP who was born in Liberia and now resides in the
United States. Using a novel droplet digital PCR for the detection of the HTLV-1 
tax gene, the proviral load in PBMC and cerebrospinal fluid cells was 12.98 and
51.68 %, respectively; however, we observed a distinct difference in fluorescence
amplitude of the positive droplet population suggesting possible mutations in
proviral DNA. A complete PTLV-1 proviral genome was amplified from the patient's 
PBMC DNA using an overlapping PCR strategy. Phylogenetic analysis of the envelope
and LTR sequences showed the virus was highly related to PTLV-1 from sooty
mangabey monkeys (smm) and humans exposed via nonhuman primates in West Africa.
CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate the patient is infected with a simian
variant of PTLV-1, suggesting for the first time that PTLV-1smm infection in
humans may be associated with a chronic progressive neurologic disease.

DOI: 10.1186/s12977-016-0290-9 
PMCID: PMC4982997
PMID: 27519553 


311. Lasers Med Sci. 2016 Dec;31(9):1775-1782. Epub 2016 Aug 12.

The effects of low-level laser irradiation on breast tumor in mice and the
expression of Let-7a, miR-155, miR-21, miR125, and miR376b.

Khori V(1), Alizadeh AM(2), Gheisary Z(3), Farsinejad S(3), Najafi F(4),
Khalighfard S(3), Ghafari F(3), Hadji M(3), Khodayari H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Ischemic Disorders Research Center, Golestan University of Medical Sciences,
Gorgan, Iran. (2)Cancer Research Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences,
Tehran, Iran, Zip Code: 1419733141. aalizadeh@sina.tums.ac.ir. (3)Cancer Research
Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran, Zip Code:
1419733141. (4)Medical Engineering, Faculty of Biomedical Engineering, Amir Kabir
University, Tehran, Iran.

Low-level laser therapy (LLLT) is a form of photon therapy which can be a
non-invasive therapeutic procedure in cancer therapy using low-intensity light in
the range of 450-800 nm. One of the main functional features of laser therapy is 
the photobiostimulation effects of low-level lasers on various biological systems
including altering DNA synthesis and modifying gene expression, and stopping
cellular proliferation. This study investigated the effects of LLLT on mice
mammary tumor and the expression of Let-7a, miR155, miR21, miR125, and miR376b in
the plasma and tumor samples. Sixteen mice were equally divided into four groups 
including control, and blue, green, and red lasers at wavelengths of 405, 532,
and 632 nm, respectively. Weber Medical Applied Laser irradiation was carried out
with a low power of 1-3 mW and a series of 10 treatments at three times a week
after tumor establishment. Tumor volume was weekly measured by a digital vernier 
caliper, and qRT-PCR assays were performed to accomplish the study. Depending on 
the number of groups and the p value of the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test of normality,
a t test, a one-way ANOVA, or a non-parametric test was used for data analyses,
and p < 0.05 was considered to be statistically significant. The average tumor
volume was significantly less in the treated blue group than the control group on
at days 21, 28, and 35 after cancerous cell injection. Our data also showed an
increase of Let-7a and miR125a expression and a decrease of miR155, miR21, and
miR376b expression after LLLT with the blue laser both the plasma and tumor
samples compared to other groups. It seems that the non-invasive nature of laser 
bio-stimulation can make LLLT an attractive alternative therapeutic tool.

DOI: 10.1007/s10103-016-2049-x 
PMID: 27517690  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Microb Cell Fact. 2016 Aug 11;15(1):139. doi: 10.1186/s12934-016-0540-5.

Characterization of a panARS-based episomal vector in the methylotrophic yeast
Pichia pastoris for recombinant protein production and synthetic biology
applications.

Camattari A(1), Goh A(2), Yip LY(2), Tan AH(2), Ng SW(2), Tran A(3), Liu G(3),
Liachko I(4), Dunham MJ(4), Rancati G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Bioprocessing Technology Institute (A-STAR), 20 Biopolis Way, #06-01 Centros, 
Singapore, 138668, Singapore. andrea_camattari@bti.a-star.edu.sg.
(2)Bioprocessing Technology Institute (A-STAR), 20 Biopolis Way, #06-01 Centros, 
Singapore, 138668, Singapore. (3)Institute of Medical Biology (A-STAR), 8a
Biomedical Grove, #06-06, Singapore, 138648, Singapore. (4)Department of Genome
Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Recombinant protein production in the methylotrophic yeast Pichia
pastoris largely relies on integrative vectors. Although the stability of
integrated expression cassettes is well appreciated for most applications, the
availability of reliable episomal vectors for this host would represent a useful 
tool to expedite cloning and high-throughput screening, ameliorating also the
relatively high clonal variability reported in transformants from integrative
vectors caused by off-target integration in the P. pastoris genome. Recently,
heterologous and endogenous autonomously replicating sequences (ARS) were
identified in P. pastoris by genome mining, opening the possibility of expanding 
the available toolbox to include efficient episomal plasmids. The aim of this
technical report is to validate a 452-bp sequence ("panARS") in context of P.
pastoris expression vectors, and to compare their performance to classical
integrative plasmids. Moreover, we aimed to test if such episomal vectors would
be suitable to sustain in vivo recombination, using fragments for transformation,
directly in P. pastoris cells.
RESULTS: A panARS-based episomal vector was evaluated using blue fluorescent
protein (BFP) as a reporter gene. Normalized fluorescence from colonies carrying 
panARS-BFP outperformed the level of signal obtained from integrative controls by
several-fold, whereas endogenous sequences, identified from the P. pastoris
genome, were not as efficient in terms of protein production. At the single cell 
level, panARS-BFP clones showed lower interclonal variability but higher
intraclonal variation compared to their integrative counterparts, supporting the 
idea that heterologous protein production could benefit from episomal plasmids.
Finally, efficiency of 2-fragment and 3-fragment in vivo recombination was tested
using varying lengths of overlapping regions and molar ratios between fragments. 
Upon optimization, minimal background was obtained for in vivo assembled vectors,
suggesting this could be a quick and efficient method to generate of episomal
plasmids of interest.
CONCLUSIONS: An expression vector based on the panARS sequence was shown to
outperform its integrative counterparts in terms of protein productivity and
interclonal variability, facilitating recombinant protein expression and
screening. Using optimized fragment lengths and ratios, it was possible to
perform reliable in vivo recombination of fragments in P. pastoris. Taken
together, these results support the applicability of panARS episomal vectors for 
synthetic biology approaches.

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-016-0540-5 
PMCID: PMC4981965
PMID: 27515025 


313. PLoS One. 2016 Aug 11;11(8):e0158621. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0158621.
eCollection 2016.

Comparative Digital Gene Expression Analysis of the Arabidopsis Response to
Volatiles Emitted by Bacillus amyloliquefaciens.

Hao HT(1,)(2,)(3), Zhao X(1,)(2,)(3), Shang QH(1,)(2,)(3), Wang Y(4,)(3), Guo
ZH(1,)(2,)(3), Zhang YB(1,)(2,)(3), Xie ZK(1,)(2,)(3), Wang RY(1,)(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Gaolan Station of Agricultural and Ecological Experiment, Cold and Arid
Regions Environmental and Engineering Research Institute, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Lanzhou, China. (2)Key Laboratory of Stress Physiology and Ecology in
Cold and Arid Regions of Gansu Province, Lanzhou, China. (3)University of Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China. (4)Key Laboratory of Desert and
Desertification, Cold and Arid Regions Environmental and Engineering Research
Institute, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Lanzhou, China.

Some plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) regulated plant growth and
elicited plant basal immunity by volatiles. The response mechanism to the
Bacillus amyloliquefaciens volatiles in plant has not been well studied. We
conducted global gene expression profiling in Arabidopsis after treatment with
Bacillus amyloliquefaciens FZB42 volatiles by Illumina Digital Gene Expression
(DGE) profiling of different growth stages (seedling and mature) and tissues
(leaves and roots). Compared with the control, 1,507 and 820 differentially
expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in leaves and roots at the seedling stage,
respectively, while 1,512 and 367 DEGs were identified in leaves and roots at the
mature stage. Seventeen genes with different regulatory patterns were validated
using quantitative RT-PCR. Numerous DEGs were enriched for plant hormones, cell
wall modifications, and protection against stress situations, which suggests that
volatiles have effects on plant growth and immunity. Moreover, analyzes of
transcriptome difference in tissues and growth stage using DGE profiling showed
that the plant response might be tissue-specific and/or growth stage-specific.
Thus, genes encoding flavonoid biosynthesis were downregulated in leaves and
upregulated in roots, thereby indicating tissue-specific responses to volatiles. 
Genes related to photosynthesis were downregulated at the seedling stage and
upregulated at the mature stage, respectively, thereby suggesting growth
period-specific responses. In addition, the emission of bacterial volatiles
significantly induced killing of cells of other organism pathway with
up-regulated genes in leaves and the other three pathways (defense response to
nematode, cell morphogenesis involved in differentiation and trichoblast
differentiation) with up-regulated genes were significantly enriched in roots.
Interestingly, some important alterations in the expression of growth-related
genes, metabolic pathways, defense response to biotic stress and hormone-related 
genes were firstly founded response to FZB42 volatiles.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0158621 
PMCID: PMC4981348
PMID: 27513952 


314. Stud Mycol. 2016;83:1-18. doi: 10.1016/j.simyco.2016.02.001. Epub 2016 Feb 28.

The role of melanin pathways in extremotolerance and virulence of Fonsecaea
revealed by de novo assembly transcriptomics using illumina paired-end
sequencing.

Li XQ(1), Guo BL(1), Cai WY(1), Zhang JM(1), Huang HQ(2), Zhan P(3), Xi LY(1),
Vicente VA(4), Stielow B(5), Sun JF(6), de Hoog GS(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital, Sun Yat-sen
University, Guangzhou, China. (2)Department of Dermatology, The Third Affiliated 
Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China. (3)Dermatology Hospital of
Jiangxi Province, Nanchang, China; CBS-KNAW Fungal Biodiversity Centre, Utrecht, 
The Netherlands; Institute of Biodiversity and Ecosystem Dynamics, University of 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. (4)Basic Pathology Department, Federal
University of Paraná State, Curitiba, Paraná, Brazil. (5)CBS-KNAW Fungal
Biodiversity Centre, Utrecht, The Netherlands. (6)Guangdong Provincial Institute 
of Public Health, Guangdong Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention,
Guangzhou, Guangdong, China. (7)CBS-KNAW Fungal Biodiversity Centre, Utrecht, The
Netherlands; Institute of Biodiversity and Ecosystem Dynamics, University of
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Basic Pathology Department, Federal
University of Paraná State, Curitiba, Paraná, Brazil; Biological Sciences
Department, Faculty of Science, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia; 
Department of Dermatology, First Hospital of Peking University, Beijing, China.

Melanisation has been considered to be an important virulence factor of Fonsecaea
monophora. However, the biosynthetic mechanisms of melanisation remain unknown.
We therefore used next generation sequencing technology to investigate the
transcriptome and digital gene expression data, which are valuable resources to
better understand the molecular and biological mechanisms regulating melanisation
in F. monophora. We performed de novo transcriptome assembly and digital gene
expression (DGE) profiling analyses of parent (CBS 122845) and albino (CBS
125194) strains using the Illumina RNA-seq system. A total of 17 352 annotated
unigenes were found by BLAST search of NR, Swiss-Prot, Gene Ontology, Clusters of
Orthologous Groups and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) (E-value
<1e‒5). A total of 2 283 unigenes were judged to be the differentially expressed 
between the two genotypes. We identified most of the genes coding for key enzymes
involved in melanin biosynthesis pathways, including polyketide synthase (pks),
multicopper oxidase (mco), laccase, tyrosinase and homogentisate 1,2-dioxygenase 
(hmgA). DEG analysis showed extensive down-regulation of key genes in the DHN
pathway, while up-regulation was noted in the DOPA pathway of the albino mutant. 
The transcript levels of partial genes were confirmed by real time RT-PCR, while 
the crucial role of key enzymes was confirmed by either inhibitor or substrate
tests in vitro. Meanwhile, numbers of genes involved in light sensing, cell wall 
synthesis, morphology and environmental stress were identified in the
transcriptome of F. monophora. In addition, 3 353 SSRs (Simple Sequence Repeats) 
markers were identified from 21 600 consensus sequences. Blocking of the DNH
pathway is the most likely reason of melanin deficiency in the albino strain,
while the production of pheomelanin and pyomelanin were probably regulated by
unknown transcription factors on upstream of both pathways. Most of genes
involved in environmental tolerance to oxidants, irradiation and extreme
temperatures were also assembled and annotated in transcriptomes of F. monophora.
In addition, thousands of identified cSSR (combined SSR) markers will favour
further genetic linkage studies. In conclusion, these data will contribute to
understanding the regulation of melanin biosynthesis and help to improve the
studies of pathogenicity of F. monophora.

DOI: 10.1016/j.simyco.2016.02.001 
PMCID: PMC4969264
PMID: 27504027 


315. PLoS One. 2016 Aug 8;11(8):e0160440. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0160440.
eCollection 2016.

Uropathogenic Escherichia coli Releases Extracellular Vesicles That Are
Associated with RNA.

Blenkiron C(1,)(2), Simonov D(1,)(2), Muthukaruppan A(3), Tsai P(4), Dauros P(1),
Green S(1), Hong J(2,)(5), Print CG(1,)(4,)(6), Swift S(1), Phillips
AR(2,)(5,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine and Pathology, University of Auckland,
Auckland, New Zealand. (2)Department of Surgery, University of Auckland,
Auckland, New Zealand. (3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of
Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand. (4)Bioinformatics Institute, University of
Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand. (5)School of Biological Sciences, University of 
Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand. (6)Maurice Wilkins Centre, University of
Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.

BACKGROUND: Bacterium-to-host signalling during infection is a complex process
involving proteins, lipids and other diffusible signals that manipulate host cell
biology for pathogen survival. Bacteria also release membrane vesicles (MV) that 
can carry a cargo of effector molecules directly into host cells. Supported by
recent publications, we hypothesised that these MVs also associate with RNA,
which may be directly involved in the modulation of the host response to
infection.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Using the uropathogenic Escherichia coli (UPEC) strain 536, 
we have isolated MVs and found they carry a range of RNA species. Density
gradient centrifugation further fractionated and characterised the MV preparation
and confirmed that the isolated RNA was associated with the highest particle and 
protein containing fractions. Using a new approach, RNA-sequencing of libraries
derived from three different 'size' RNA populations (<50nt, 50-200nt and 200nt+) 
isolated from MVs has enabled us to now report the first example of a complete
bacterial MV-RNA profile. These data show that MVs carry rRNA, tRNAs, other small
RNAs as well as full-length protein coding mRNAs. Confocal microscopy visualised 
the delivery of lipid labelled MVs into cultured bladder epithelial cells and
showed their RNA cargo labelled with 5-EU (5-ethynyl uridine), was transported
into the host cell cytoplasm and nucleus. MV RNA uptake by the cells was
confirmed by droplet digital RT-PCR of csrC. It was estimated that 1% of MV RNA
cargo is delivered into cultured cells.
CONCLUSIONS: These data add to the growing evidence of pathogenic bacterial MV
being associated a wide range of RNAs. It further raises the plausibility for
MV-RNA-mediated cross-kingdom communication whereby they influence host cell
function during the infection process.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0160440 
PMCID: PMC4976981
PMID: 27500956 


316. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2016 Oct;408(26):7393-402. doi: 10.1007/s00216-016-9819-y.
Epub 2016 Aug 6.

Digital camera and smartphone as detectors in paper-based chemiluminometric
genotyping of single nucleotide polymorphisms.

Spyrou EM(1), Kalogianni DP(1), Tragoulias SS(1), Ioannou PC(2), Christopoulos
TK(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Patras, 26504, Patras, Greece.
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of Athens, Panepistimiopolis, Zografou,
15771, Athens, Greece. (3)Department of Chemistry, University of Patras, 26504,
Patras, Greece. tchrist@upatras.gr. (4)Institute of Chemical Engineering and High
Temperature Processes, Foundation for Research and Technology Hellas
(FORTH/ICEHT), 26504, Patras, Greece. tchrist@upatras.gr.

Chemi(bio)luminometric assays have contributed greatly to various areas of
nucleic acid analysis due to their simplicity and detectability. In this work, we
present the development of chemiluminometric genotyping methods in which (a)
detection is performed by using either a conventional digital camera (at ambient 
temperature) or a smartphone and (b) a lateral flow assay configuration is
employed for even higher simplicity and suitability for point of care or field
testing. The genotyping of the C677T single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) of
methylenetetrahydropholate reductase (MTHFR) gene is chosen as a model. The
interrogated DNA sequence is amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
followed by a primer extension reaction. The reaction products are captured
through hybridization on the sensing areas (spots) of the strip.
Streptavidin-horseradish peroxidase conjugate is used as a reporter along with a 
chemiluminogenic substrate. Detection of the emerging chemiluminescence from the 
sensing areas of the strip is achieved by digital camera or smartphone. For this 
purpose, we constructed a 3D-printed smartphone attachment that houses
inexpensive lenses and converts the smartphone into a portable chemiluminescence 
imager. The device enables spatial discrimination of the two alleles of a SNP in 
a single shot by imaging of the strip, thus avoiding the need of dual labeling.
The method was applied successfully to genotyping of real clinical samples.
Graphical abstract Paper-based genotyping assays using digital camera and
smartphone as detectors.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-016-9819-y 
PMID: 27497963 


317. BMC Cell Biol. 2016 Aug 5;17(1):30. doi: 10.1186/s12860-016-0108-6.

Aneuploidy screening of embryonic stem cell clones by metaphase karyotyping and
droplet digital polymerase chain reaction.

Codner GF(1), Lindner L(2), Caulder A(1), Wattenhofer-Donzé M(2), Radage A(1),
Mertz A(2), Eisenmann B(2), Mianné J(2), Evans EP(1), Beechey CV(1), Fray MD(1), 
Birling MC(2), Hérault Y(2), Pavlovic G(3), Teboul L(4).

Author information: 
(1)The Mary Lyon Centre, Medical Research Council Harwell Institute, Harwell
Science and Innovation Campus, Didcot, OX11 0RD, Oxon, UK. (2)PHENOMIN, Institut 
Clinique de la Souris, ICS; CNRS, INSERM, Université de Strasbourg,
Illkirch-Graffenstaden, Strasbourg, 67404, France. (3)PHENOMIN, Institut Clinique
de la Souris, ICS; CNRS, INSERM, Université de Strasbourg,
Illkirch-Graffenstaden, Strasbourg, 67404, France. pavlovic@igbmc.fr. (4)The Mary
Lyon Centre, Medical Research Council Harwell Institute, Harwell Science and
Innovation Campus, Didcot, OX11 0RD, Oxon, UK. l.teboul@har.mrc.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Karyotypic integrity is essential for the successful germline
transmission of alleles mutated in embryonic stem (ES) cells. Classical methods
for the identification of aneuploidy involve cytological analyses that are both
time consuming and require rare expertise to identify mouse chromosomes.
RESULTS: As part of the International Mouse Phenotyping Consortium, we gathered
data from over 1,500 ES cell clones and found that the germline transmission
(GLT) efficiency of clones is compromised when over 50 % of cells harbour
chromosome number abnormalities. In JM8 cells, chromosomes 1, 8, 11 or Y
displayed copy number variation most frequently, whilst the remainder generally
remain unchanged. We developed protocols employing droplet digital polymerase
chain reaction (ddPCR) to accurately quantify the copy number of these four
chromosomes, allowing efficient triage of ES clones prior to microinjection. We
verified that assessments of aneuploidy, and thus decisions regarding the
suitability of clones for microinjection, were concordant between classical
cytological and ddPCR-based methods. Finally, we improved the method to include
assay multiplexing so that two unstable chromosomes are counted simultaneously
(and independently) in one reaction, to enhance throughput and further reduce the
cost.
CONCLUSION: We validated a PCR-based method as an alternative to classical
karyotype analysis. This technique enables laboratories that are non-specialist, 
or work with large numbers of clones, to precisely screen ES cells for the most
common aneuploidies prior to microinjection to ensure the highest level of
germline transmission potential. The application of this method allows early
exclusion of aneuploid ES cell clones in the ES cell to mouse conversion process,
thus improving the chances of obtaining germline transmission and reducing the
number of animals used in failed microinjection attempts. This method can be
applied to any other experiments that require accurate analysis of the genome for
copy number variation (CNV).

DOI: 10.1186/s12860-016-0108-6 
PMCID: PMC4974727
PMID: 27496052 


318. Hum Mutat. 2016 Nov;37(11):1153-1156. doi: 10.1002/humu.23061. Epub 2016 Aug 25.

Loss of Major DNase I Hypersensitive Sites in Duplicated β-globin Gene Cluster
Incompletely Silences HBB Gene Expression.

Reading NS(1,)(2,)(3), Shooter C(4), Song J(2), Miller R(5), Agarwal A(1,)(3),
Lanikova L(2,)(6), Clark B(4,)(7), Thein SL(4,)(8), Divoky V(9,)(10), Prchal
JT(11,)(12,)(13).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Clinical and Experimental Pathology, ARUP Laboratories, Salt
Lake City, Utah. (2)Division of Hematology, Department of Internal Medicine,
School of Medicine, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah. (3)Department of
Pathology, School of Medicine, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah.
(4)Molecular Haematology, Division of Cancer Studies, King's College London
Faculty of Life Sciences & Medicine, London, UK. (5)Center for Cancer and Blood
Disorders, Nemours/El Dupont Hospital for Children, Wilmington, Delaware.
(6)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, Institute of Molecular Genetics,
Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, Prague, Czech Republic. (7)Department 
of Molecular Pathology, Viapath at King's College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, 
London, UK. (8)National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, Sickle Cell Branch,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland. (9)Department of Biology,
Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, Palacky University, Olomouc, Czech Republic.
vladimir.divoky@upol.cz. (10)Department of Biology, Faculty of Medicine, Masaryk 
University, Brno, Czech Republic. vladimir.divoky@upol.cz. (11)Institute for
Clinical and Experimental Pathology, ARUP Laboratories, Salt Lake City, Utah.
josef.prchal@hsc.utah.edu. (12)Division of Hematology, Department of Internal
Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah.
josef.prchal@hsc.utah.edu. (13)Department of Pathology, School of Medicine,
University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah. josef.prchal@hsc.utah.edu.

We report an infant with sickle cell disease phenotype by biochemical analysis
whose β-globin gene (HBB) sequencing showed sickle cell mutation (HBB(S) )
heterozygosity. The proband has a unique head-to-tail duplication of the β-globin
gene cluster having wild-type (HBB(A) ) and HBB(S) alleles inherited from her
father; constituting her HBB(S) /HBB(S) -HBB(A) genotype. Further analyses
revealed that proband's duplicated β-globin gene cluster (∼650 kb) encompassing
HBB(A) does not include the immediate upstream locus control region (LCR) or 3'
DNase I hypersensitivity (HS) element. The LCR interacts with β-globin gene
cluster involving long range DNA interactions mediated by various transcription
factors to drive the regulation of globin genes expression. However, a low level 
of HBB(A) transcript was clearly detected by digital PCR. In this patient, the
observed transcription from the duplicated, distally displaced HBB(A) cluster
demonstrates that the loss of LCR and flanking 3'HS sites do not lead to complete
silencing of HBB transcription.

© 2016 WILEY PERIODICALS, INC.

DOI: 10.1002/humu.23061 
PMID: 27492747 


319. Clin Cancer Res. 2017 Feb 1;23(3):726-734. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-1070.
Epub 2016 Aug 3.

Association of AR-V7 and Prostate-Specific Antigen RNA Levels in Blood with
Efficacy of Abiraterone Acetate and Enzalutamide Treatment in Men with Prostate
Cancer.

Qu F(1), Xie W(2), Nakabayashi M(1), Zhang H(3), Jeong SH(1), Wang X(1), Komura
K(1), Sweeney CJ(1), Sartor O(3), Lee GM(1), Kantoff PW(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts. (2)Department of Biostatistics and
Computational Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts.
(3)Department of Urology and Medicine, Tulane University School of Medicine, New 
Orleans, Los Angeles. (4)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts. kantoff@mskcc.org.
(5)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New 
York.

PURPOSE: We evaluated the association of PSA and androgen receptor splice
variant-7 (AR-V7) transcript levels in patients' blood with time to treatment
failure (TTF) and overall survival (OS) with abiraterone acetate and/or
enzalutamide treatment in castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) patients.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: RNA levels of AR-V7 and PSA in peripheral blood collected
before treatment were quantified using droplet digital-PCR in retrospective
cohorts treated with abiraterone acetate (N = 81) or enzalutamide (N = 51) for
CRPC. Multivariable Cox regression adjusted for known prognostic factors was used
for analyses.
RESULTS: PSA transcripts were detected in 57% of abiraterone acetate-treated
patients and in 63% of enzalutamide-treated patients. PSA-positive patients had a
shorter TTF than PSA-negative patients [adjusted HR = 2.27 (95% confidence
interval (CI) 1.26-4.10) and 2.60 (95% CI, 1.19-5.69); P = 0.006 and 0.017 in
abiraterone acetate and enzalutamide cohorts, respectively]. Patients with a
higher-AR-V7 transcript level had a shorter TTF with abiraterone acetate and
enzalutamide in univariate analysis (median 8.0 months vs. 15.6 months, P = 0.046
in abiraterone acetate-cohort and 3.6 months vs. 5.6 months; P = 0.050 in
enzalutamide cohort). In multivariable models, the association with TTF remained 
significant in the enzalutamide cohort (adjusted HR = 2.02; 95% CI, 1.01-4.05; P 
= 0.048), but statistically insignificant in the abiraterone acetate cohort. In
both cohorts, we observed potential prognostic value of both PSA and AR-V7 RNA
expression on OS; patients with detectable PSA transcripts and high AR-V7
predicted the poorest OS.
CONCLUSIONS: PSA and AR-V7 transcripts in blood potentially serve as biomarkers
predicting TTF and OS with abiraterone acetate or enzalutamide treatment. If
validated prospectively, their detection could be facilitated without isolation
of circulating tumor cells. Clin Cancer Res; 23(3); 726-34. ©2016 AACR.

©2016 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-1070 
PMID: 27489290 


320. J Hum Genet. 2016 Dec;61(12):977-984. doi: 10.1038/jhg.2016.101. Epub 2016 Aug 4.

Whole-gene CFTR sequencing combined with digital RT-PCR improves genetic
diagnosis of cystic fibrosis.

Straniero L(1), Soldà G(2,)(3), Costantino L(4), Seia M(4), Melotti P(5), Colombo
C(6), Asselta R(2,)(3), Duga S(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Biotechnology and Translational Medicine, University of 
Milan, Milan, Italy. (2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Humanitas University, 
Milan, Italy. (3)Humanitas Clinical and Research Center, Milan, Italy. (4)Medical
Genetics Laboratory, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico,
Milan, Italy. (5)Cystic Fibrosis Center, Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria
Integrata di Verona, Verona, Italy. (6)Cystic Fibrosis Center of Milan,
Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, Milan, Italy.

Despite extensive screening, 1-5% of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients lack a
definite molecular diagnosis. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) is making
affordable genetic testing based on the identification of variants in extended
genomic regions. In this frame, we analyzed 23 CF patients and one carrier by
whole-gene CFTR resequencing: 4 were previously characterized and served as
controls; 17 were cases lacking a complete diagnosis after a full conventional
CFTR screening; 3 were consecutive subjects referring to our centers, not
previously submitted to any screening. We also included in the custom NGS design 
the coding portions of the SCNN1A, SCNN1B and SCNN1G genes, encoding the subunits
of the sodium channel ENaC, which were found to be mutated in CF-like patients.
Besides 2 novel SCNN1B missense mutations, we identified 22 previously-known CFTR
mutations, including 2 large deletions (whose breakpoints were precisely mapped),
and novel deep-intronic variants, whose role on splicing was excluded by ex-vivo 
analyses. Finally, for 2 patients, compound heterozygotes for a CFTR mutation and
the intron-9c.1210-34TG[11-12]T5 allele-known to be associated with decreased
CFTR mRNA levels-the molecular diagnosis was implemented by measuring the
residual level of wild-type transcript by digital reverse transcription
polymerase chain reaction performed on RNA extracted from nasal brushing.

DOI: 10.1038/jhg.2016.101 
PMID: 27488443 


321. BMC Infect Dis. 2016 Aug 3;16:366. doi: 10.1186/s12879-016-1696-7.

The use of digital PCR to improve the application of quantitative molecular
diagnostic methods for tuberculosis.

Devonshire AS(1), O'Sullivan DM(1), Honeyborne I(2), Jones G(1), Karczmarczyk
M(3), Pavšič J(4), Gutteridge A(1), Milavec M(4), Mendoza P(5), Schimmel H(3),
Van Heuverswyn F(3), Gorton R(2), Cirillo DM(6), Borroni E(6), Harris K(7),
Barnard M(8,)(9), Heydenrych A(8,)(9), Ndusilo N(10), Wallis CL(11), Pillay
K(11), Barry T(12), Reddington K(12), Richter E(13), Mozioğlu E(14), Akyürek
S(14), Yalçınkaya B(14), Akgoz M(14), Žel J(4), Foy CA(1), McHugh TD(2), Huggett 
JF(15,)(16,)(17).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Cell Biology, LGC, Queens Road, Teddington, TW11 0LY, UK.
(2)Centre for Clinical Microbiology, Department of Infection, University College 
London, Royal Free Campus, London, UK. (3)European Commission, Joint Research
Centre (JRC), Institute for Reference Materials and Measurements (IRMM), Geel,
Belgium. (4)National Institute of Biology, Večna pot 111, 1000, Ljubljana,
Slovenia. (5)Vircell S.L. Molecular Diagnostic Department, The Technology Park of
Health Sciences, Granada, Spain. (6)TB Supranational Reference Laboratory, San
Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy. (7)Microbiology, Virology and
Infection Control, Great Ormond Street Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(8)Centre for Clinical Tuberculosis Research, TASK Applied Science, Cape Town,
South Africa. (9)SA MRC Centre for TB Research, DST/NRF Centre of Excellence for 
Biomedical Tuberculosis Research, Division of Molecular Biology and Human
Genetics, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences - Stellenbosch University,
Francie van Zijl Drive, Tygerberg 7505, PO Box 241, Cape Town, 8000, South
Africa. (10)KCRI, Moshi, Tanzania. (11)BARC-SA and Mycobacteriology Department,
Lancet Laboratories, Johannesburg, South Africa. (12)Nucleic Acid Diagnostics
Research Laboratory (NADRL), Microbiology, School of Natural Sciences, National
University of Ireland, Galway, Ireland. (13)Forschungszentrum Borstel, National
Reference Centre for Mycobacteria, Borstel, D-23845, Germany. (14)UME, Ulusal
Metroloji Enstitüsü, Gebze, Kocaeli, Turkey. (15)Molecular and Cell Biology, LGC,
Queens Road, Teddington, TW11 0LY, UK. jim.huggett@lgcgroup.com. (16)Centre for
Clinical Microbiology, Department of Infection, University College London, Royal 
Free Campus, London, UK. jim.huggett@lgcgroup.com. (17)School of Biosciences &
Medicine, Faculty of Health & Medical Sciences, University of Surrey, Guildford, 
UK. jim.huggett@lgcgroup.com.

BACKGROUND: Real-time PCR (qPCR) based methods, such as the Xpert MTB/RIF, are
increasingly being used to diagnose tuberculosis (TB). While qualitative methods 
are adequate for diagnosis, the therapeutic monitoring of TB patients requires
quantitative methods currently performed using smear microscopy. The potential
use of quantitative molecular measurements for therapeutic monitoring has been
investigated but findings have been variable and inconclusive. The lack of an
adequate reference method and reference materials is a barrier to understanding
the source of such disagreement. Digital PCR (dPCR) offers the potential for an
accurate method for quantification of specific DNA sequences in reference
materials which can be used to evaluate quantitative molecular methods for TB
treatment monitoring.
METHODS: To assess a novel approach for the development of quality assurance
materials we used dPCR to quantify specific DNA sequences in a range of prototype
reference materials and evaluated accuracy between different laboratories and
instruments. The materials were then also used to evaluate the quantitative
performance of qPCR and Xpert MTB/RIF in eight clinical testing laboratories.
RESULTS: dPCR was found to provide results in good agreement with the other
methods tested and to be highly reproducible between laboratories without
calibration even when using different instruments. When the reference materials
were analysed with qPCR and Xpert MTB/RIF by clinical laboratories, all
laboratories were able to correctly rank the reference materials according to
concentration, however there was a marked difference in the measured magnitude.
CONCLUSIONS: TB is a disease where the quantification of the pathogen could lead 
to better patient management and qPCR methods offer the potential to rapidly
perform such analysis. However, our findings suggest that when precisely
characterised materials are used to evaluate qPCR methods, the measurement result
variation is too high to determine whether molecular quantification of
Mycobacterium tuberculosis would provide a clinically useful readout. The methods
described in this study provide a means by which the technical performance of
quantitative molecular methods can be evaluated independently of clinical
variability to improve accuracy of measurement results. These will assist in
ultimately increasing the likelihood that such approaches could be used to
improve patient management of TB.

DOI: 10.1186/s12879-016-1696-7 
PMCID: PMC4971652
PMID: 27487852 


322. Acta Neuropathol Commun. 2016 Aug 4;4(1):78. doi: 10.1186/s40478-016-0356-x.

Human neuronal changes in brain edema and increased intracranial pressure.

Faragó N(1,)(2,)(3), Kocsis ÁK(1), Braskó C(1), Lovas S(1), Rózsa M(1), Baka
J(1), Kovács B(1), Mikite K(1), Szemenyei V(1), Molnár G(1), Ozsvár A(1), Oláh
G(1), Piszár I(1), Zvara Á(2), Patócs A(4), Barzó P(5), Puskás LG(2,)(3), Tamás
G(6).

Author information: 
(1)MTA-SZTE Research Group for Cortical Microcircuits of the Hungarian Academy of
Sciences, Department of Physiology, Anatomy and Neuroscience, University of
Szeged, Közép fasor 52, Szeged, H-6726, Hungary. (2)Laboratory of Functional
Genomics, Department of Genetics, Biological Research Center, Hungarian Academy
of Sciences, Temesvári krt. 62, Szeged, H-6726, Hungary. (3)Avidin Ltd., Alsó
kikötő sor 11, Szeged, H-6726, Hungary. (4)MTA Lendület Hereditary Endocrine
Tumors Research Group, Semmelweis University, Szentkirályi u. 46, Budapest,
H-1088, Hungary. (5)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Szeged, Semmelweis 
u. 6, Szeged, H-6725, Hungary. (6)MTA-SZTE Research Group for Cortical
Microcircuits of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Department of Physiology,
Anatomy and Neuroscience, University of Szeged, Közép fasor 52, Szeged, H-6726,
Hungary. gtamas@bio.u-szeged.hu.

Functional and molecular changes associated with pathophysiological conditions
are relatively easily detected based on tissue samples collected from patients.
Population specific cellular responses to disease might remain undiscovered in
samples taken from organs formed by a multitude of cell types. This is
particularly apparent in the human cerebral cortex composed of a yet undefined
number of neuron types with a potentially different involvement in disease
processes. We combined cellular electrophysiology, anatomy and single cell
digital PCR in human neurons identified in situ for the first time to assess mRNA
expression and corresponding functional changes in response to edema and
increased intracranial pressure. In single pyramidal cells, mRNA copy numbers of 
AQP1, AQP3, HMOX1, KCNN4, SCN3B and SOD2 increased, while CACNA1B, CRH decreased 
in edema. In addition, single pyramidal cells increased the copy number of AQP1, 
HTR5A and KCNS1 mRNAs in response to increased intracranial pressure. In contrast
to pyramidal cells, AQP1, HMOX1and KCNN4 remained unchanged in single cell
digital PCR performed on fast spiking cells in edema. Corroborating single cell
digital PCR results, pharmacological and immunohistochemical results also
suggested the presence of KCNN4 encoding the α-subunit of KCa3.1 channels in
edema on pyramidal cells, but not on interneurons. We measured the frequency of
spontaneous EPSPs on pyramidal cells in both pathophysiological conditions and on
fast spiking interneurons in edema and found a significant decrease in each case,
which was accompanied by an increase in input resistances on both cell types and 
by a drop in dendritic spine density on pyramidal cells consistent with a loss of
excitatory synapses. Our results identify anatomical and/or physiological changes
in human pyramidal and fast spiking cells in edema and increased intracranial
pressure revealing cell type specific quantitative changes in gene expression.
Some of the edema/increased intracranial pressure modulated and single human
pyramidal cell verified gene products identified here might be considered as
novel pharmacological targets in cell type specific neuroprotection.

DOI: 10.1186/s40478-016-0356-x 
PMCID: PMC4972952
PMID: 27487831 


323. J Microbiol Methods. 2016 Oct;129:70-7. doi: 10.1016/j.mimet.2016.07.025. Epub
2016 Jul 30.

Evaluation of real-time PCR assays and standard curve optimisation for enhanced
accuracy in quantification of Campylobacter environmental water isolates.

Gosselin-Théberge M(1), Taboada E(2), Guy RA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Public Health Agency of Canada, NML at Saint-Hyacinthe, Saint-Hyacinthe, QC
J2S8E3, Canada; Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Université de Montréal,
Saint-Hyacinthe, QC J2S2M2, Canada. (2)Public Health Agency of Canada, NML at
Lethbridge, Lethbridge, AB T1J 3Z4, Canada. (3)Public Health Agency of Canada,
NML at Saint-Hyacinthe, Saint-Hyacinthe, QC J2S8E3, Canada; Faculty of Veterinary
Medicine, Université de Montréal, Saint-Hyacinthe, QC J2S2M2, Canada. Electronic 
address: rebecca.guy@phac-aspc.gc.ca.

Campylobacter is a major public health and economic burden in developed and
developing countries. This study evaluated published real-time PCR (qPCR) assays 
for detection of Campylobacter to enable selection of the best assays for
quantification of C. spp. and C. jejuni in environmental water samples. A total
of 9 assays were compared: three for thermotolerant C. spp. targeting the 16S
rRNA and six for C. jejuni targeting different genes. These assays were tested in
the wet-lab for specificity and sensitivity against a collection of 60,
genetically diverse, Campylobacter isolates from environmental water. All three
qPCR assays targeting C. spp. were positive when tested against the 60 isolates, 
whereas, assays targeting C. jejuni differed among each other in terms of
specificity and sensitivity. Three C. jejuni-specific assays that demonstrated
good specificity and sensitivity when tested in the wet-lab showed concordant
results with in silico-predicted results obtained against a set of 211 C. jejuni 
and C. coli genome sequences. Two of the assays targeting C. spp. and C. jejuni
were selected to compare DNA concentration estimation, using spectrophotometry
and digital PCR (dPCR), in order to calibrate standard curves (SC) for greater
accuracy of qPCR-based quantification. Average differences of 0.56±0.12 and
0.51±0.11 log fold copies were observed between the spectrophotometry-based SC
preparation and the dPCR preparation for C. spp. and C. jejuni, respectively,
demonstrating an over-estimation of Campylobacter concentration when
spectrophotometry was used to calibrate the DNA SCs. Our work showed differences 
in quantification of aquatic environmental isolates of Campylobacter between qPCR
assays and method-specific bias in SC preparation. This study provided an
objective analysis of qPCR assays targeting Campylobacter in the literature and
provides a framework for evaluating novel assays.

Crown Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mimet.2016.07.025 
PMID: 27485709 


324. PLoS One. 2016 Aug 2;11(8):e0160192. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0160192.
eCollection 2016.

Anti-HIV Antibody Responses and the HIV Reservoir Size during Antiretroviral
Therapy.

Lee SA(1), Bacchetti P(1), Chomont N(2), Fromentin R(2), Lewin SR(3,)(4),
O'Doherty U(5), Palmer S(6), Richman DD(7), Siliciano JD(8), Yukl SA(1,)(9),
Deeks SG(1), Burbelo PD(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco,
CA, United States of America. (2)CR-CHUM and Department of Microbiology,
Infectious Diseases, and Immunology, Université de Montréal, Montreal, Quebec,
Canada. (3)The Peter Doherty for Infection and Immunity, The University of
Melbourne and Royal Melbourne Hospital, Melbourne, VIC, Australia. (4)Department 
of Infectious Diseases, Monash University and Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, VIC,
Australia. (5)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, United States of America. (6)Centre for Virus
Research, The Westmead Institute for Medical Research, The University of Sydney, 
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. (7)Departments of Medicine and Pathology,
University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California, United States of
America, Veterans Affairs San Diego Healthcare System, San Diego, CA, United
States of America. (8)Department of Medicine Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United States of America. (9)Veterans Affairs San
Francisco Healthcare System, San Francisco, CA, United States of America.
(10)Dental Clinical Research Core, National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial 
Research, Bethesda, MD, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: A major challenge to HIV eradication strategies is the lack of an
accurate measurement of the total burden of replication-competent HIV (the
"reservoir"). We assessed the association of anti-HIV antibody responses and the 
estimated size of the reservoir during antiretroviral therapy (ART).
METHODS: We evaluated anti-HIV antibody profiles using luciferase
immunoprecipitation systems (LIPS) assay in relation to several blood-based HIV
reservoir measures: total and 2-LTR DNA (rtPCR or droplet digital PCR);
integrated DNA (Alu PCR); unspliced RNA (rtPCR), multiply-spliced RNA (TILDA),
residual plasma HIV RNA (single copy PCR), and replication-competent virus
(outgrowth assay). We also assessed total HIV DNA and RNA in gut-associated
lymphoid tissue (rtPCR). Spearman correlations and linear regressions were
performed using log-transformed blood- or tissue-based reservoir measurements as 
predictors and log-transformed antibody levels as outcome variables.
RESULTS: Among 51 chronically HIV-infected ART-suppressed participants (median
age = 57, nadir CD4+ count = 196 cells/mm3, ART duration = 9 years), the most
statistically significant associations were between antibody responses to
integrase and HIV RNA in gut-associated lymphoid tissue (1.17 fold-increase per
two-fold RNA increase, P = 0.004) and between antibody responses to matrix and
integrated HIV DNA in resting CD4+ T cells (0.35 fold-decrease per two-fold DNA
increase, P = 0.003). However, these associations were not statistically
significant after a stringent Bonferroni-adjustment of P<0.00045. Multivariate
models including age and duration of ART did not markedly alter results.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that anti-HIV antibody responses may reflect
the size of the HIV reservoir during chronic treated HIV disease, possibly via
antigen recognition in reservoir sites. Larger, prospective studies are needed to
validate the utility of antibody levels as a measure of the total body burden of 
HIV during treatment.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0160192 
PMCID: PMC4970722
PMID: 27483366 


325. J Virus Erad. 2016 Jul 1;2(3):162-9.

Diagnostic utility of droplet digital PCR for HIV reservoir quantification.

Trypsteen W(1), Kiselinova M(1), Vandekerckhove L(1), De Spiegelaere W(1).

Author information: 
(1)HIV Translational Research Unit, Department of Internal Medicine , Ghent
University , Belgium.

Quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) is implemented in many molecular laboratories
worldwide for the quantification of viral nucleic acids. However, over the last
two decades, there has been renewed interest in the concept of digital PCR (dPCR)
as this platform offers direct quantification without the need for standard
curves, a simplified workflow and the possibility to extend the current detection
limit. These benefits are of great interest in terms of the quantification of low
viral levels in HIV reservoir research because changes in the dynamics of
residual HIV reservoirs will be important to monitor HIV cure efforts. Here, we
have implemented a systematic literature screening and text mining approach to
map the use of droplet dPCR (ddPCR) in the context of HIV quantification. In
addition, several technical aspects of ddPCR were compared with qPCR: accuracy,
sensitivity, precision and reproducibility, to determine its diagnostic utility. 
We have observed that ddPCR was used in different body compartments in multiple
HIV-1 and HIV-2 assays, with the majority of reported assays focusing on HIV-1
DNA-based applications (i.e. total HIV DNA). Furthermore, ddPCR showed a higher
accuracy, precision and reproducibility, but similar sensitivity when compared to
qPCR due to reported false positive droplets in the negative template controls
with a need for standardised data analysis (i.e. threshold determination). In the
context of a low level of detection and HIV reservoir diagnostics, ddPCR can
offer a valid alternative to qPCR-based assays but before this platform can be
clinically accredited, some remaining issues need to be resolved.


PMCID: PMC4967968
PMID: 27482456 


326. Haematologica. 2016 Sep;101(9):1094-101. doi: 10.3324/haematol.2016.145102. Epub 
2016 Jun 13.

Detection and prognostic value of recurrent exportin 1 mutations in tumor and
cell-free circulating DNA of patients with classical Hodgkin lymphoma.

Camus V(1), Stamatoullas A(1), Mareschal S(2), Viailly PJ(2), Sarafan-Vasseur
N(3), Bohers E(2), Dubois S(2), Picquenot JM(4), Ruminy P(2), Maingonnat C(2),
Bertrand P(2), Cornic M(5), Tallon-Simon V(6), Becker S(7), Veresezan L(5),
Frebourg T(3), Vera P(7), Bastard C(8), Tilly H(1), Jardin F(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology, Centre Henri Becquerel, Rouen, France INSERM U918,
Centre Henri Becquerel, University of Rouen, Rouen, France. (2)INSERM U918,
Centre Henri Becquerel, University of Rouen, Rouen, France. (3)INSERM U1079,
University of Rouen, Rouen, France. (4)INSERM U918, Centre Henri Becquerel,
University of Rouen, Rouen, France Department of Pathology, Centre Henri
Becquerel, Rouen, France. (5)Department of Pathology, Centre Henri Becquerel,
Rouen, France. (6)Clinical Research Unit, Centre Henri Becquerel, Rouen, France. 
(7)Department of Nuclear Medicine and Radiology, Centre Henri Becquerel and
QuantIF (Litis EA4108 - FR CNRS 3638), Rouen, France. (8)INSERM U918, Centre
Henri Becquerel, University of Rouen, Rouen, France Department of Genetic
Oncology, Centre Henri Becquerel, Rouen, France. (9)Department of Hematology,
Centre Henri Becquerel, Rouen, France INSERM U918, Centre Henri Becquerel,
University of Rouen, Rouen, France fabrice.jardin@chb.unicancer.fr.

Classical Hodgkin lymphoma is one of the most common lymphomas and shares
clinical and genetic features with primary mediastinal B-cell lymphoma. In this
retrospective study, we analyzed the recurrent hotspot mutation of the exportin 1
(XPO1, p.E571K) gene, previously identified in primary mediastinal B-cell
lymphoma, in biopsies and plasma circulating cell-free DNA from patients with
classical Hodgkin lymphoma using a highly sensitive digital PCR technique. A
total of 94 patients were included in the present study. This widely expressed
XPO1 E571K mutation is present in one quarter of classical Hodgkin lymphoma
patients (24.2%). Mutated and wild-type classical Hodgkin lymphomas were similar 
regarding the main clinical features. Patients with a detectable XPO1 mutation at
the end of treatment displayed a tendency toward shorter progression-free
survival, as compared to patients with undetectable mutation in plasma cell-free 
DNA (2-year progression-free survival: 57.1%, 95% confidence interval: 30.1-100% 
versus 2-year progression-free survival: 90.5%, 95% confidence interval:
78.8-100%, respectively, P=0.0601). To conclude, the detection of the XPO1 E571K 
mutation in biopsy and plasma cell-free DNA by digital PCR may be used as a novel
biomarker in classical Hodgkin lymphoma for both diagnosis and minimal residual
disease, and pinpoints a crucial role of XPO1 in classical Hodgkin lymphoma
pathogenesis. The detection of somatic mutation in the plasma cell-free DNA of
patients represents a major technological advance in the context of liquid
biopsies and noninvasive management of classical Hodgkin lymphoma.

Copyright© Ferrata Storti Foundation.

DOI: 10.3324/haematol.2016.145102 
PMCID: PMC5060026
PMID: 27479820 


327. DNA Res. 2016 Dec;23(6):547-559. Epub 2016 Jul 31.

Artifactual mutations resulting from DNA lesions limit detection levels in
ultrasensitive sequencing applications.

Arbeithuber B(1,)(2), Makova KD(2), Tiemann-Boege I(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biophysics, Johannes Kepler University, Linz 4020, Austria.
(2)Department of Biology, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA
16802, USA. (3)Institute of Biophysics, Johannes Kepler University, Linz 4020,
Austria irene.tiemann@jku.at.

The need in cancer research or evolutionary biology to detect rare mutations or
variants present at very low frequencies (<10(-5)) poses an increasing demand on 
lowering the detection limits of available methods. Here we demonstrated that
amplifiable DNA lesions introduce important error sources in ultrasensitive
technologies such as single molecule PCR (smPCR) applications (e.g.
droplet-digital PCR), or next-generation sequencing (NGS) based methods. Using
templates with known amplifiable lesions (8-oxoguanine, deaminated
5-methylcytosine, uracil, and DNA heteroduplexes), we assessed with smPCR and
duplex sequencing that templates with these lesions were amplified very
efficiently by proofreading polymerases (except uracil), leading to G->T, and to 
a lesser extent, to unreported G->C substitutions at 8-oxoguanine lesions, and
C->T transitions in amplified uracil containing templates. Long heat incubations 
common in many DNA extraction protocols significantly increased the number of
G->T substitutions. Moreover, in ∼50-80% smPCR reactions we observed the random
amplification preference of only one of both DNA strands explaining the known
'PCR jackpot effect', with the result that a lesion became indistinguishable from
a true mutation or variant. Finally, we showed that artifactual mutations derived
from uracil and 8-oxoguanine could be significantly reduced by DNA repair
enzymes.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Kazusa DNA
Research Institute.

DOI: 10.1093/dnares/dsw038 
PMCID: PMC5144678
PMID: 27477585  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. J Exp Clin Cancer Res. 2016 Jul 30;35(1):124. doi: 10.1186/s13046-016-0393-0.

A restricted signature of serum miRNAs distinguishes glioblastoma from lower
grade gliomas.

Regazzo G(1), Terrenato I(2), Spagnuolo M(1), Carosi M(3), Cognetti G(4),
Cicchillitti L(5), Sperati F(2), Villani V(6), Carapella C(7), Piaggio G(8),
Pelosi A(1), Rizzo MG(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Research, Advanced Diagnostics and Technological Innovation,
Genomic and Epigenetic Unit, Translational Research Area, Regina Elena National
Cancer Institute, Via Elio Chianesi 53, 00144, Rome, Italy. (2)Biostatistical
Unit, Regina Elena National Cancer Institute, Rome, Italy. (3)Department of
Research, Advanced Diagnostics and Technological Innovation, Pathology Unit,
Regina Elena National Cancer Institute, Rome, Italy. (4)Digital library,
Knowledge Center "Riccardo Maceratini" and Patient Library, Regina Elena National
Cancer Institute, Rome, Italy. (5)Department of Research, Advanced Diagnostics
and Technological Innovation, SAFU Unit, Translational Research Area, Regina
Elena National Cancer Institute, Rome, Italy. (6)Neuro-Oncology Unit, Regina
Elena National Cancer Institute, Rome, Italy. (7)Department of Clinical and
Experimental Oncology-Neurosurgery, Regina Elena National Cancer Institute, Rome,
Italy. (8)Department of Research, Advanced Diagnostics and Technological
Innovation, SAFU Unit, Translational Research Area, Regina Elena National Cancer 
Institute, Rome, Italy. giulia.piaggio@ifo.gov.it. (9)Department of Research,
Advanced Diagnostics and Technological Innovation, Genomic and Epigenetic Unit,
Translational Research Area, Regina Elena National Cancer Institute, Via Elio
Chianesi 53, 00144, Rome, Italy. maria.rizzo@ifo.gov.it.

BACKGROUND: Malignant gliomas are the most common primary brain tumors in adults 
and challenging cancers for diagnosis and treatment. They remain a disease for
which non-invasive, diagnostic and/or prognostic novel biomarkers are highly
desirable. Altered microRNA (miRNA) profiles have been observed in tumor tissues 
and biological fluids. To date only a small set of circulating/serum miRNA is
found to be differentially expressed in brain tumors compared to normal controls.
Here a restricted signature of circulating/serum miRNA including miR-15b*,-23a,
-99a, -125b, -133a, -150*, -197, -340, -497, -548b-5p and let-7c were
investigated as potential non-invasive biomarkers in the diagnosis of glioma
patients.
METHODS: Serum and tissues miRNAs expression in patients with brain cancers
(n = 30) and healthy controls (n = 15) were detected by quantitative real-time
polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Relative expression was calculated using the
comparative Ct method. Statistical significance (p ≤ 0,05) was determined using
the Mann-Whitney rank sum and Fisher's exact test. Diagnostic accuracy of miRNAs 
in distinguishing glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) from lower grade cancer was
assessed by the Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. To
validate the role of the identified miRNAs in cancer a comprehensive literature
search was conducted using PubMed, Web of Science (Core Collection) and Scopus
databases.
RESULTS: We observed a decrease of miR-497 and miR-125b serum levels depending on
tumor stages with reduced level in GBM than lower grade tumors. The ROC curve
analysis distinguishing GBM from lower grade cases yielded an area under the
curve (AUC) of 0.87 (95 % confidence interval (CI) = 0.712-1) and of 0.75 (95 %
CI = 0.533-0.967) for miR-497 and -125b, respectively. GBM patients are more
likely to show a miR-497 and -125b down-regulation than the lower grade group
(p = 0.002 and p = 0.024, respectively). These results were subsequently compared
with evidence from 19 studies included in the final systematic review.
CONCLUSIONS: Although multiple biomarkers are currently leveraged in the clinic
to detect specific cancer types, no such standard blood biomolecules are used as 
yet in gliomas. Our data suggest that serum miR-497 and -125b could be a novel
diagnostic markers with good perspectives for future clinical applications in
patients with glioma.

DOI: 10.1186/s13046-016-0393-0 
PMCID: PMC4967504
PMID: 27476114 


329. Tumour Biol. 2016 Oct;37(10):13687-13694. Epub 2016 Jul 29.

Total and mutated EGFR quantification in cell-free DNA from non-small cell lung
cancer patients detects tumor heterogeneity and presents prognostic value.

Alegre E(1,)(2,)(3), Fusco JP(4), Restituto P(1,)(3), Salas-Benito D(3,)(4),
Rodríguez-Ruiz ME(3,)(4), Andueza MP(4), Pajares MJ(3,)(5,)(6), Patiño-García
A(3,)(7), Pio R(2,)(3,)(5), Lozano MD(3,)(8), Gúrpide A(3,)(4), Lopez-Picazo
JM(3,)(4), Gil-Bazo I(3,)(4), Perez-Gracia JL(3,)(4), Gonzalez A(9,)(10,)(11).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Chemistry Department, Clínica Universidad de Navarra, Av Pio XII 36, 
31008, Pamplona, Spain. (2)Department of Biochemistry and Genetics, Universidad
de Navarra, Irunlarrea 1, 31008, Pamplona, Spain. (3)IdiSNA, Navarra Institute
for Health Research, Irunlarrea 3, 31008, Pamplona, Spain. (4)Department of
Oncology, Clínica Universidad de Navarra, Av Pio XII 36, 31008, Pamplona, Spain. 
(5)Program in Solid Tumors and Biomarkers|, Centro de Investigación Médica
Aplicada (CIMA), Av Pio XII, 55 31008, Pamplona, Spain. (6)Department of
Histology, Universidad de Navarra, Irunlarrea 1, 31008, Pamplona, Spain.
(7)Department of Pediatrics and CIMA LAB Diagnostics, Clínica Universidad de
Navarra, Av Pio XII 36, 31008, Pamplona, Spain. (8)Department of Pathology,
Clínica Universidad de Navarra, Av Pio XII 36, 31008, Pamplona, Spain.
(9)Clinical Chemistry Department, Clínica Universidad de Navarra, Av Pio XII 36, 
31008, Pamplona, Spain. agonzaleh@unav.es. (10)Department of Biochemistry and
Genetics, Universidad de Navarra, Irunlarrea 1, 31008, Pamplona, Spain.
agonzaleh@unav.es. (11)IdiSNA, Navarra Institute for Health Research, Irunlarrea 
3, 31008, Pamplona, Spain. agonzaleh@unav.es.

Mutation analysis of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene is essential
for treatment selection in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Analysis is
usually performed in tumor samples. We evaluated the clinical utility of EGFR
analysis in plasma cell-free DNA (cfDNA) from patients under treatment with EGFR 
inhibitors. We selected 36 patients with NSCLC and EGFR-activating mutations.
Blood samples were collected at baseline and during treatment with EGFR
inhibitors. Wild-type EGFR, L858R, delE746-A750, and T790M mutations were
quantified in cfDNA by droplet digital PCR. Stage IV patients had higher total
circulating EGFR copy levels than stage I (3523 vs. 1003 copies/mL; p < 0.01).
There was high agreement for activating mutations between baseline cfDNA and
tumor samples, especially for L858R mutation (kappa index = 0.679; p = 0.001). In
34 % of advanced NSCLC patients, we detected mutations in cfDNA not previously
detected in tumor samples and double mutations in 17 %. Patients with baseline
total EGFR copy levels above the median presented decreased overall survival (OS)
(341 vs. 870 days, p < 0.05) and progression-free survival (PFS) (238 vs.
783 days; p < 0.05) compared with those with total EGFR copy levels below the
median. Patients with baseline concentrations of activating mutations above the
median (94 copies/mL) had lower OS (317 vs. 805 days; p < 0.05) and PFS (195 vs. 
724 days; p < 0.05). During follow-up, T790M resistance mutation was detected in 
53 % of patients. Total and mutated EGFR analysis in cfDNA seems a relevant tool 
to characterize the molecular profile and prognosis of NSCLC patients harboring
EGFR mutations.

DOI: 10.1007/s13277-016-5282-9 
PMID: 27473086  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. J Virol. 2016 Sep 29;90(20):8968-83. doi: 10.1128/JVI.00674-16. Print 2016 Oct
15.

HIV DNA Is Frequently Present within Pathologic Tissues Evaluated at Autopsy from
Combined Antiretroviral Therapy-Treated Patients with Undetectable Viral Loads.

Lamers SL(1), Rose R(1), Maidji E(2), Agsalda-Garcia M(3), Nolan DJ(4), Fogel
GB(5), Salemi M(6), Garcia DL(7), Bracci P(7), Yong W(8), Commins D(9), Said
J(8), Khanlou N(8), Hinkin CH(10), Sueiras MV(11), Mathisen G(12), Donovan S(12),
Shiramizu B(3), Stoddart CA(2), McGrath MS(13), Singer EJ(11).

Author information: 
(1)Bioinfoexperts, LLC, Thibodaux, Louisiana, USA. (2)Division of Experimental
Medicine, Department of Medicine, San Francisco General Hospital, University of
California, San Francisco, California, USA. (3)The University of Hawaii,
Department of Tropical Medicine, Medical Microbiology & Pharmacology and Hawaii
Center for AIDS, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA. (4)Bioinfoexperts, LLC, Thibodaux,
Louisiana, USA The University of Florida Emerging Pathogens Institute, Department
of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Gainesville, Florida, USA. (5)Natural
Selection, Inc., San Diego, California, USA. (6)The University of Florida
Emerging Pathogens Institute, Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine,
Gainesville, Florida, USA. (7)The AIDS and Cancer Specimen Resource, San
Francisco, California, USA University of California, San Francisco, Department of
Medicine, San Francisco, California, USA. (8)National Neurological AIDS Bank,
Department of Neurology, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of
California at Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California, USA David Geffen School of
Medicine and Olive View-UCLA Medical Center, Department of Pathology and
Laboratory Medicine, Los Angeles, California, USA. (9)University of Southern
California Keck School of Medicine, Los Angeles, California, USA. (10)National
Neurological AIDS Bank, Department of Neurology, David Geffen School of Medicine,
University of California at Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California, USA UCLA School
of Medicine, Department of Psychiatry & Biobehavioral Sciences, Los Angeles,
California, USA. (11)National Neurological AIDS Bank, Department of Neurology,
David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California at Los Angeles, Los
Angeles, California, USA David Geffen School of Medicine and Olive View-UCLA
Medical Center, Department of Neurology, Los Angeles, California, USA.
(12)National Neurological AIDS Bank, Department of Neurology, David Geffen School
of Medicine, University of California at Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California,
USA. (13)The AIDS and Cancer Specimen Resource, San Francisco, California, USA
University of California, San Francisco, Department of Medicine, San Francisco,
California, USA MMcGrath@php.ucsf.edu.

HIV infection treatment strategies have historically defined effectiveness
through measuring patient plasma HIV RNA. While combined antiretroviral therapy
(cART) can reduce plasma viral load (pVL) to undetectable levels, the degree that
HIV is eliminated from other anatomical sites remains unclear. We investigated
the HIV DNA levels in 229 varied autopsy tissues from 20 HIV-positive (HIV(+))
cART-treated study participants with low or undetectable plasma VL and
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) VL prior to death who were enrolled in the National
Neurological AIDS Bank (NNAB) longitudinal study and autopsy cohort. Extensive
medical histories were obtained for each participant. Autopsy specimens,
including at least six brain and nonbrain tissues per participant, were reviewed 
by study pathologists. HIV DNA, measured in tissues by quantitative and droplet
digital PCR, was identified in 48/87 brain tissues and 82/142 nonbrain tissues at
levels >200 HIV copies/million cell equivalents. No participant was found to be
completely free of tissue HIV. Parallel sequencing studies from some tissues
recovered intact HIV DNA and RNA. Abnormal histological findings were identified 
in all participants, especially in brain, spleen, lung, lymph node, liver, aorta,
and kidney. All brain tissues demonstrated some degree of pathology. Ninety-five 
percent of participants had some degree of atherosclerosis, and 75% of
participants died with cancer. This study assists in characterizing the
anatomical locations of HIV, in particular, macrophage-rich tissues, such as the 
central nervous system (CNS) and testis. Additional studies are needed to
determine if the HIV recovered from tissues promotes the pathogenesis of
inflammatory diseases, such as HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders, cancer,
and atherosclerosis.IMPORTANCE: It is well-known that combined antiretroviral
therapy (cART) can reduce plasma HIV to undetectable levels; however, cART cannot
completely clear HIV infection. An ongoing question is, "Where is HIV hiding?" A 
well-studied HIV reservoir is "resting" T cells, which can be isolated from blood
products and succumb to cART once activated. Less-studied reservoirs are
anatomical tissue samples, which have unknown cART penetration, contain a
comparably diverse spectrum of potentially HIV-infected immune cells, and are
important since <2% of body lymphocytes actually reside in blood. We examined 229
varied autopsy specimens from 20 HIV(+) participants who died while on cART and
identified that >50% of tissues were HIV infected. Additionally, we identified
considerable pathology in participants' tissues, especially in brain, spleen,
lung, lymph node, liver, aorta, and kidney. This study substantiates that
tissue-associated HIV is present despite cART and can inform future studies into 
HIV persistence.

Copyright © 2016, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.00674-16 
PMCID: PMC5044815 [Available on 2017-03-29]
PMID: 27466426 


331. Funct Integr Genomics. 2016 Sep;16(5):529-43. doi: 10.1007/s10142-016-0504-1.
Epub 2016 Jul 27.

Comprehensive transcriptome-based characterization of differentially expressed
genes involved in microsporogenesis of radish CMS line and its maintainer.

Xie Y(1), Zhang W(1), Wang Y(1), Xu L(1), Zhu X(2), Muleke EM(1), Liu L(3).

Author information: 
(1)National Key Laboratory of Crop Genetics and Germplasm Enhancement, College of
Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing, 210095, People's Republic
of China. (2)Department of Plant Sciences, North Dakota State University, Fargo, 
ND, 58105, USA. (3)National Key Laboratory of Crop Genetics and Germplasm
Enhancement, College of Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing,
210095, People's Republic of China. nauliulw@njau.edu.cn.

Microsporogenesis is an indispensable period for investigating microspore
development and cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) occurrence. Radish CMS line
plays a critical role in elite F1 hybrid seed production and heterosis
utilization. However, the molecular mechanisms of microspore development and CMS 
occurrence have not been thoroughly uncovered in radish. In this study, a
comparative analysis of radish floral buds from a CMS line (NAU-WA) and its
maintainer (NAU-WB) was conducted using next generation sequencing (NGS)
technology. Digital gene expression (DGE) profiling revealed that 3504 genes were
significantly differentially expressed between NAU-WA and NAU-WB library, among
which 1910 were upregulated and 1594 were downregulated. Gene ontology (GO)
analysis showed that these differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were mainly
enriched in extracellular region, catalytic activity, and response to stimulus.
KEGG enrichment analysis revealed that the DEGs were predominantly associated
with flavonoid biosynthesis, glycolysis, and biosynthesis of secondary
metabolites. Real-time quantitative PCR analysis showed that the expression
profiles of 13 randomly selected DEGs were in high agreement with results from
Illumina sequencing. Several candidate genes encoding ATP synthase, auxin
response factor (ARF), transcription factors (TFs), chalcone synthase (CHS), and 
male sterility (MS) were responsible for microsporogenesis. Furthermore, a
schematic diagram for functional interaction of DEGs from NAU-WA vs. NAU-WB
library in radish plants was proposed. These results could provide new
information on the dissection of the molecular mechanisms underlying microspore
development and CMS occurrence in radish.

DOI: 10.1007/s10142-016-0504-1 
PMID: 27465294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Infect Agent Cancer. 2016 Jul 26;11:32. doi: 10.1186/s13027-016-0081-x.
eCollection 2016.

Human herpesvirus multiplex ddPCR detection in brain tissue from low- and
high-grade astrocytoma cases and controls.

Lin CT(1), Leibovitch EC(1), Almira-Suarez MI(2), Jacobson S(3).

Author information: 
(1)The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, BG 10 RM 5C103 10 Center Dr., Bethesda, MD 20892 USA ;
School of Medicine and Health Sciences, The George Washington University, Ross
Hall 2300 Eye Street, NW, Washington, DC 20037 USA. (2)School of Medicine and
Health Sciences, The George Washington University, Ross Hall 2300 Eye Street, NW,
Washington, DC 20037 USA. (3)The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
Stroke, National Institutes of Health, BG 10 RM 5C103 10 Center Dr., Bethesda, MD
20892 USA.

BACKGROUND: Glioblastoma (GBM) is a fatal CNS malignancy, representing 50 % of
all gliomas with approximately 12-18 months survival time after initial
diagnosis. Recently, the human herpesvirus cytomegalovirus (CMV) has been
suggested to have an oncogenic role, yet this association remains controversial. 
In addition, human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) have also
been associated with low-grade gliomas, but few studies have examined HHV-6 and
EBV in glioblastomas. Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) is a highly precise diagnostic 
tool that enables the absolute quantification of target DNA. This study examines 
the association between multiple human herpesviruses and astrocytomas.
METHODS: This study analyzed 112 brain tissue specimens, including 45
glioblastoma, 12 astrocytoma grade III, 2 astrocytoma grade II, 4 astrocytoma
grade I, and 49 controls. All brain tissue samples were de-identified and
pathologically confirmed. Each tissue block was sectioned for DNA extraction and 
CMV, EBV, HHV-6A and HHV-6B, and a cellular housekeeping gene were amplified by
ddPCR.
RESULTS: Neither CMV nor HHV-6A were detected in any of the astrocytoma samples. 
However, HHV-6B (p = 0.147) and EBV (p = 0.049) had a higher positivity frequency
in the GBM compared to the controls.
CONCLUSION: The undetectable CMV DNA in the astrocytoma cohort does not support
the observation of an increased prevalence of CMV DNA in GBM, as reported in
other studies. EBV has a significantly higher positivity in the GBM cohort
compared to the controls, while HHV-6B has a higher but not statistically
significant positivity in the case cohort. Whether these viruses play an
oncogenic role in GBM remains to be further investigated.

DOI: 10.1186/s13027-016-0081-x 
PMCID: PMC4960850
PMID: 27462365 


333. Methods Mol Biol. 2016;1452:113-30. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-3774-5_7.

The Next-Generation PCR-Based Quantification Method for Ambient Waters: Digital
PCR.

Cao Y(1), Griffith JF(1), Weisberg SB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Southern California Coastal Water Research Project Authority, 3535 Harbor
Blvd, Costa Mesa, CA, 92626, USA. (2)Southern California Coastal Water Research
Project Authority, 3535 Harbor Blvd, Costa Mesa, CA, 92626, USA.
stevew@sccwrp.org.

Real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR) is increasingly being used for ambient water
monitoring, but development of digital polymerase chain reaction (digital PCR)
has the potential to further advance the use of molecular techniques in such
applications. Digital PCR refines qPCR by partitioning the sample into thousands 
to millions of miniature reactions that are examined individually for binary
endpoint results, with DNA density calculated from the fraction of positives
using Poisson statistics. This direct quantification removes the need for
standard curves, eliminating the labor and materials associated with creating and
running standards with each batch, and removing biases associated with standard
variability and mismatching amplification efficiency between standards and
samples. Confining reactions and binary endpoint measurements to small partitions
also leads to other performance advantages, including reduced susceptibility to
inhibition, increased repeatability and reproducibility, and increased capacity
to measure multiple targets in one analysis. As such, digital PCR is well suited 
for ambient water monitoring applications and is particularly advantageous as
molecular methods move toward autonomous field application.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-3774-5_7 
PMID: 27460373 


334. J Mol Diagn. 2016 Sep;18(5):753-61. doi: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2016.05.008. Epub 2016 
Jul 25.

Certified DNA Reference Materials to Compare HER2 Gene Amplification Measurements
Using Next-Generation Sequencing Methods.

Lih CJ(1), Si H(1), Das B(1), Harrington RD(1), Harper KN(1), Sims DJ(1),
McGregor PM(1), Camalier CE(1), Kayserian AY(1), Williams PM(1), He HJ(2),
Almeida JL(2), Lund SP(3), Choquette S(2), Cole KD(4).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Characterization and Clinical Assay Development Laboratory,
Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer Research, Frederick, Maryland.
(2)Division of Biosystems and Biomaterials, National Institute of Standards and
Technology, Gaithersburg, Maryland. (3)Division of Statistical Engineering,
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, Maryland.
(4)Division of Biosystems and Biomaterials, National Institute of Standards and
Technology, Gaithersburg, Maryland. Electronic address: kenneth.cole@nist.gov.

The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Standard Reference
Materials 2373 is a set of genomic DNA samples prepared from five breast cancer
cell lines with certified values for the ratio of the HER2 gene copy number to
the copy numbers of reference genes determined by real-time quantitative PCR and 
digital PCR. Targeted-amplicon, whole-exome, and whole-genome sequencing
measurements were used with the reference material to compare the performance of 
both the laboratory steps and the bioinformatic approaches of the different
methods using a range of amplification ratios. Although good reproducibility was 
observed in each next-generation sequencing method, slightly different HER2 copy 
numbers associated with platform-specific biases were obtained. This study
clearly demonstrates the value of Standard Reference Materials 2373 as reference 
material and as a calibrator for evaluating assay performance as well as for
increasing confidence in reporting HER2 amplification for clinical applications.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2016.05.008 
PMID: 27455875 


335. J Clin Virol. 2016 Sep;82:70-5. doi: 10.1016/j.jcv.2016.07.008. Epub 2016 Jul 18.

Utility of droplet digital PCR for the quantitative detection of polyomavirus JC 
in clinical samples.

Giovannelli I(1), Ciccone N(2), Vaggelli G(2), Malva ND(2), Torricelli F(3),
Rossolini GM(4), Giannecchini S(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, University of Florence,
Florence, Italy. (2)Clinical Microbiology and Virology unit, Careggi University
Hospital, University of Florence, Florence, Italy. (3)Genetics Diagnostic unit,
Careggi University Hospital, Florence, Italy. (4)Department of Experimental and
Clinical Medicine, University of Florence, Florence, Italy; Clinical Microbiology
and Virology unit, Careggi University Hospital, University of Florence, Florence,
Italy; Department of Medical Biotechnologies, University of Siena, Siena, Italy. 
(5)Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, University of Florence,
Florence, Italy. Electronic address: simone.giannecchini@unifi.it.

BACKGROUND: Quantitative PCR (qPCR) is the standard molecular method for
detection of polyomavirus JC (JCPyV) DNA reactivation in serum and cerebrospinal 
fluid (CSF) in patients at risk of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy
(PML). Recently, digital PCR has shown potential benefits over qPCR in viral
diagnostics.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the performance of droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) assay in
assessing JCPyV-DNA status in clinical samples of patients at risk for PML.
STUDY DESIGN: JCPyV specific ddPCR was developed with primers/probes targeting
Large T and the noncoding control region used in qPCR. The ddPCR accuracy of
JCPyV-DNA quantification was investigated using serial dilutions of genomic
JCPyV-DNA. The ddPCR JCPyV-DNA quantification and qPCR confirmation were
performed on 150 CSF and 100 serum clinical samples.
RESULTS: Using genomic JCPyV-DNA, ddPCR was highly sensitive, repeatable and
reproducible for both molecular targets. Using clinical samples, JCPyV-DNA was
detected in 13% of CSF and in 50% of serum samples with limit of detection of 30 
copies/ml. Among the 19 JCPyV-DNA-positive CSF detected using the ddPCR, 15 also 
tested positive with the qPCR. Among the 50 JCPyV-DNA-positive serum identified
with ddPCR, 41 tested positive with qPCR. All the ddPCR-negative samples were
negative when assessed using qPCR. Additionally, the mean JCPyV-DNA viral load
obtained with ddPCR in all samples was not significantly different from that of
qPCR.
CONCLUSION: The results demonstrate that ddPCR is a highly sensitive alternative 
for measuring JCPyV-DNA that should be considered in clinical diagnostic testing 
of JCPyV-DNA in patients at risk of PML and other associated diseases.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcv.2016.07.008 
PMID: 27454232 


336. Food Chem. 2016 Dec 15;213:388-94. doi: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2016.06.086. Epub 2016
Jun 25.

Absolute quantification of olive oil DNA by droplet digital-PCR (ddPCR):
Comparison of isolation and amplification methodologies.

Scollo F(1), Egea LA(2), Gentile A(3), La Malfa S(4), Dorado G(5), Hernandez
P(6).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Agricultura Sostenible (IAS-CSIC), Consejo Superior de
Investigaciones Científicas, Alameda del Obispo s/n, 14080 Córdoba, Spain;
Dipartimento di Agricoltura, Alimentazione e Ambiente (Di3A), Via Valdisavoia 5, 
Università degli Studi di Catania, 95123 Catania, Italy. Electronic address:
fscollo@unict.it. (2)Instituto de Agricultura Sostenible (IAS-CSIC), Consejo
Superior de Investigaciones Científicas, Alameda del Obispo s/n, 14080 Córdoba,
Spain; Dep. Bioquímica y Biología Molecular, Campus Rabanales C6-1-E17, Campus de
Excelencia Internacional Agroalimentario (ceiA3), Universidad de Córdoba, 14071
Córdoba, Spain. Electronic address: z32ayegl@uco.es. (3)Dipartimento di
Agricoltura, Alimentazione e Ambiente (Di3A), Via Valdisavoia 5, Università degli
Studi di Catania, 95123 Catania, Italy; Horticulture and Landscape College, Hunan
Agricultural University, Changsha, Hunan, China. Electronic address:
gentilea@unict.it. (4)Dipartimento di Agricoltura, Alimentazione e Ambiente
(Di3A), Via Valdisavoia 5, Università degli Studi di Catania, 95123 Catania,
Italy. Electronic address: slamalfa@unict.it. (5)Dep. Bioquímica y Biología
Molecular, Campus Rabanales C6-1-E17, Campus de Excelencia Internacional
Agroalimentario (ceiA3), Universidad de Córdoba, 14071 Córdoba, Spain. Electronic
address: bb1dopeg@uco.es. (6)Instituto de Agricultura Sostenible (IAS-CSIC),
Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas, Alameda del Obispo s/n, 14080
Córdoba, Spain. Electronic address: phernandez@ias.csic.es.

Olive oil is considered a premium product for its nutritional value and health
benefits, and the ability to define its origin and varietal composition is a key 
step towards ensuring the traceability of the product. However, isolating the DNA
from such a matrix is a difficult task. In this study, the quality and quantity
of olive oil DNA, isolated using four different DNA isolation protocols, was
evaluated using the qRT-PCR and ddPCR techniques. The results indicate that
CTAB-based extraction methods were the best for unfiltered oil, while Nucleo
Spin-based extraction protocols showed greater overall reproducibility. The use
of both qRT-PCR and ddPCR led to the absolute quantification of the DNA copy
number. The results clearly demonstrate the importance of the choice of
DNA-isolation protocol, which should take into consideration the qualitative
aspects of DNA and the evaluation of the amplified DNA copy number.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2016.06.086 
PMID: 27451195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Tuberculosis (Edinb). 2016 Jul;99:47-53. doi: 10.1016/j.tube.2016.04.004. Epub
2016 Apr 15.

Digital PCR assay detection of circulating Mycobacterium tuberculosis DNA in
pulmonary tuberculosis patient plasma.

Ushio R(1), Yamamoto M(2), Nakashima K(1), Watanabe H(1), Nagai K(1), Shibata
Y(1), Tashiro K(1), Tsukahara T(1), Nagakura H(1), Horita N(1), Sato T(1),
Shinkai M(3), Kudo M(3), Ueda A(4), Kaneko T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pulmonology, Yokohama City University Graduate School of
Medicine, Yokohama, Japan. (2)Department of Pulmonology, Yokohama City University
Graduate School of Medicine, Yokohama, Japan. Electronic address:
masakiy@yokohama-cu.ac.jp. (3)Respiratory Disease Center, Yokohama City
University Medical Center, Yokohama, Japan. (4)Department of Internal Medicine
and Clinical Immunology, Yokohama City University Graduate School of Medicine,
Yokohama, Japan.

Nucleic acid amplification tests are a major diagnostic tool for pulmonary
tuberculosis (PTB). Recently, digital PCR (dPCR) assay has improved sensitivity
for the detection of small copy numbers of target molecules. The aim of this
study is to explore the utility of dPCR for detecting Mycobacterium tuberculosis 
(MTB) DNA in PTB patient plasma. Total DNA was purified from plasma samples of
newly diagnosed sputum smear-positive PTB patients. Copy numbers of MTB-specific 
genes in the samples were quantified with dPCR assays targeted for IS6110 or
gyrB. A total of 33 PTB patients were enrolled. Significant differences between
PTB patients and controls were observed in copy numbers of both targets: IS6110
mean ± SD, 144.8 ± 538.3 vs 0.44 ± 0.49 (copies/20 μL, p = 0.004; Mann-Whitney U 
test) and gyrB mean ± SD, 359.0 ± 2116 vs 0.07 ± 0.28 (copies/20 μL, p = 0.011;
Mann-Whitney U test), respectively. This test had sensitivities of 65% or 29% and
a specificity of 93% or 100% with the IS6110-targeted or gyrB-targeted assays,
respectively. A dPCR assay successfully detected MTB DNA in PTB patient plasma.
This minimally invasive and accurate method has potential to become an
alternative diagnostic option.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tube.2016.04.004 
PMID: 27450004 


338. Oncotarget. 2016 Oct 11;7(41):66595-66605. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.10704.

Limits and potential of targeted sequencing analysis of liquid biopsy in patients
with lung and colon carcinoma.

Rachiglio AM(1), Esposito Abate R(1), Sacco A(1), Pasquale R(1), Fenizia F(1),
Lambiase M(1), Morabito A(2), Montanino A(2), Rocco G(3), Romano C(4), Nappi
A(4), Iaffaioli RV(4), Tatangelo F(5), Botti G(5), Ciardiello F(6), Maiello
MR(7), De Luca A(7), Normanno N(1,)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Pharmacogenomics, CROM-Istituto Nazionale Tumori "Fondazione G. 
Pascale"-IRCCS, Naples, Italy. (2)Thoraco-Pulmonary, Medical Oncology, Istituto
Nazionale Tumori "Fondazione G. Pascale"-IRCCS, Naples, Italy. (3)Thoracic
Surgery, Istituto Nazionale Tumori "Fondazione G. Pascale"-IRCCS, Naples, Italy. 
(4)Gastro-Intestinal Medical Oncology, Istituto Nazionale Tumori "Fondazione G.
Pascale"-IRCCS, Naples, Italy. (5)Surgical Pathology Unit, Istituto Nazionale
Tumori "Fondazione G. Pascale"-IRCCS, Naples, Italy. (6)Department of Clinical
and Experimental Medicine 'F. Magrassi' - Medical Oncology, Seconda Università
degli Studi di Napoli, Napoli, Italy. (7)Cell Biology and Biotherapy Unit,
Istituto Nazionale Tumori "Fondazione G. Pascale"-IRCCS, Naples, Italy.

The circulating free tumor DNA (ctDNA) represents an alternative, minimally
invasive source of tumor DNA for molecular profiling. Targeted sequencing with
next generation sequencing (NGS) can assess hundred mutations starting from a low
DNA input. We performed NGS analysis of ctDNA from 44 patients with metastatic
non-small-cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) and 35 patients with metastatic colorectal 
carcinoma (CRC). NGS detected EGFR mutations in 17/22 plasma samples from
EGFR-mutant NSCLC patients (sensitivity 77.3%). The concordance rate between
tissue and plasma in NSCLC was much lower for other mutations such as KRAS that, 
based on the allelic frequency and the fraction of neoplastic cells, were likely 
to be sub-clonal. NGS also identified EGFR mutations in plasma samples from two
patients with EGFR wild type tumor tissue. Both mutations were confirmed by
droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) in both plasma and tissue samples. In CRC, the
sensitivity of the NGS plasma analysis for RAS mutations was 100% (6/6) in
patients that had not resection of the primary tumor before blood drawing, and
46.2% (6/13) in patients with primary tumor resected before enrollment. Our study
showed that NGS is a suitable method for plasma testing. However, its clinical
sensitivity is significantly affected by the presence of the primary tumor and by
the heterogeneity of driver mutations.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.10704 
PMCID: PMC5341823
PMID: 27448974 


339. Int J Legal Med. 2017 Jan;131(1):67-72. doi: 10.1007/s00414-016-1422-4. Epub 2016
Jul 22.

Indel analysis by droplet digital PCR: a sensitive method for DNA mixture
detection and chimerism analysis.

Santurtún A(1), Riancho JA(2), Arozamena J(3), López-Duarte M(4), Zarrabeitia
MT(3).

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Legal Medicine, Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, University 
of Cantabria, Av Cardenal Herrera Oria s/n, 39011, Santander, Spain.
ana.santurtun@unican.es. (2)Department of Internal Medicine, Hospital U.M.
Valdecilla, IFIMAV, University of Cantabria, 39011, Santander, Spain. (3)Unit of 
Legal Medicine, Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of
Cantabria, Av Cardenal Herrera Oria s/n, 39011, Santander, Spain. (4)Service of
Hematology, Hospital U.M. Valdecilla, Santander, Spain.

Several methods have been developed to determinate genetic profiles from a mixed 
samples and chimerism analysis in transplanted patients. The aim of this study
was to explore the effectiveness of using the droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) for
mixed chimerism detection (a mixture of genetic profiles resulting after
allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT)). We analyzed 25 DNA
samples from patients who had undergone HSCT and compared the performance of
ddPCR and two established methods for chimerism detection, based upon the Indel
and STRs analysis, respectively. Additionally, eight artificial mixture DNA
samples were created to evaluate the sensibility of ddPCR. Our results show that 
the chimerism percentages estimated by the analysis of a single Indel using ddPCR
were very similar to those calculated by the amplification of 15 STRs (r
(2) = 0.970) and with the results obtained by the amplification of 38 Indels (r
(2) = 0.975). Moreover, the amplification of a single Indel by ddPCR was
sensitive enough to detect a minor DNA contributor comprising down to 0.5 % of
the sample. We conclude that ddPCR can be a powerful tool for the determination
of a genetic profile of forensic mixtures and clinical chimerism analysis when
traditional techniques are not sensitive enough.

DOI: 10.1007/s00414-016-1422-4 
PMID: 27448113 


340. Theranostics. 2016 Jun 17;6(10):1506-13. doi: 10.7150/thno.15871. eCollection
2016.

Simple, Sensitive and Accurate Multiplex Detection of Clinically Important
Melanoma DNA Mutations in Circulating Tumour DNA with SERS Nanotags.

Wee EJ(1), Wang Y(1), Tsao SC(2), Trau M(3).

Author information: 
(1)1. Center for Personalized Nanomedicine. Australian Institute for
Bioengineering and Nanotechnology, The University of Queensland, Queensland,
Australia. (2)3. Olivia Newton-John Cancer Research Institute, Heidelberg,
Victoria, Australia; 4. Department of Surgery, University of Melbourne, Austin
Health. Heidelberg, Victoria, Australia. (3)1. Center for Personalized
Nanomedicine. Australian Institute for Bioengineering and Nanotechnology, The
University of Queensland, Queensland, Australia; 2. School of Chemistry and
Molecular Biosciences, The University of Queensland, Queensland, Australia.

Sensitive and accurate identification of specific DNA mutations can influence
clinical decisions. However accurate diagnosis from limiting samples such as
circulating tumour DNA (ctDNA) is challenging. Current approaches based on
fluorescence such as quantitative PCR (qPCR) and more recently, droplet digital
PCR (ddPCR) have limitations in multiplex detection, sensitivity and the need for
expensive specialized equipment. Herein we describe an assay capitalizing on the 
multiplexing and sensitivity benefits of surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy
(SERS) with the simplicity of standard PCR to address the limitations of current 
approaches. This proof-of-concept method could reproducibly detect as few as 0.1%
(10 copies, CV < 9%) of target sequences thus demonstrating the high sensitivity 
of the method. The method was then applied to specifically detect three important
melanoma mutations in multiplex. Finally, the PCR/SERS assay was used to genotype
cell lines and ctDNA from serum samples where results subsequently validated with
ddPCR. With ddPCR-like sensitivity and accuracy yet at the convenience of
standard PCR, we believe this multiplex PCR/SERS method could find wide
applications in both diagnostics and research.

DOI: 10.7150/thno.15871 
PMCID: PMC4955051
PMID: 27446486 


341. Front Plant Sci. 2016 Jun 29;7:963. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2016.00963. eCollection
2016.

Transcriptome Profiling of Light-Regulated Anthocyanin Biosynthesis in the
Pericarp of Litchi.

Zhang HN(1), Li WC(1), Wang HC(2), Shi SY(1), Shu B(1), Liu LQ(1), Wei YZ(1), Xie
JH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Tropical Fruit Biology, Ministry of Agriculture, South
Subtropical Crops Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Tropical Agricultural
Sciences Zhanjiang, China. (2)College of Horticulture, South China Agricultural
University Guangzhou, China.

Light is a key environmental factor that affects anthocyanin biosynthesis. To
enhance our understanding of the mechanisms involved in light-regulated
anthocyanin biosynthesis in the pericarp of litchi, we performed transcriptomic
analyses on the basis of Illumina sequencing. Fruit clusters were bagged with
double-layer Kraft paper bags at 42 days after anthesis. The bags were removed
after 2 weeks. Under light conditions, anthocyanins accumulated rapidly in the
pericarp. RNA sequences were de novo assembled into 75,935 unigenes with an
average length of 913 bp. Approximately 74.5% of unigenes (56,601) were annotated
against four public protein databases. A total of 16,622 unigenes that
significantly differed in terms of abundance were identified. These unigenes are 
implicated in light signal perception and transduction, flavonoid biosynthesis,
carotenoid biosynthesis, plant hormone signal transduction, and photosynthesis.
In photoreceptors, the expression levels of UV RESISTANCE LOCUS 8 (UVR8),
Phototropin 2 (PHOT2), Phytochrome B (PHYB), and Phytochrome C (PHYC) increased
significantly when the fruits were exposed to light. This result indicated that
they likely play important roles in anthocyanin biosynthesis regulation. After
analyzed digital gene expression (DGE), we found that the light signal
transduction elements of COP1 and COP10 might be responsible for anthocyanin
biosynthesis regulation. After the bags were removed, nearly all structural and
regulatory genes, such as UDP-glucose: flavonoid-3-O-glucosyltransferase (UFGT), 
MYB, basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH), and WD40, involved in the anthocyanin
biosynthetic pathway were upregulated. In addition to MYB-bHLH-WD40 transcription
complex, ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL (HY5), NAM/ATAF/CUC (NAC), homeodomain leucine
zipper proteins (ATHBs), and FAR-RED ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL (FHY) possibly
participate in light-induced responses. On the basis of DGEs and qRT-PCR
validation, we observed a light-induced anthocyanin biosynthesis and regulation
pattern in litchi pericarp. This study enhanced our understanding of the
molecular mechanisms governing light-induced anthocyanin biosynthesis in litchi
pericarp.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2016.00963 
PMCID: PMC4925703
PMID: 27446187 


342. Age (Dordr). 2016 Aug;38(4):323-333. Epub 2016 Jul 21.

Loss of the antioxidant enzyme CuZnSOD (Sod1) mimics an age-related increase in
absolute mitochondrial DNA copy number in the skeletal muscle.

Masser DR(1,)(2,)(3,)(4), Clark NW(1), Van Remmen H(4,)(5), Freeman
WM(6,)(7,)(8,)(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, The University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center,
Oklahoma City, OK, 73104, USA. (2)Department of Geriatric Medicine, The
University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, Oklahoma City, OK, 73104, USA.
(3)Harold Hamm Diabetes Center, The University of Oklahoma Health Sciences
Center, Oklahoma City, OK, 73104, USA. (4)Oklahoma Nathan Shock Center on Aging, 
Oklahoma City, OK, 73104, USA. (5)Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation, Oklahoma 
City, OK, 73102, USA. (6)Department of Physiology, The University of Oklahoma
Health Sciences Center, Oklahoma City, OK, 73104, USA. wfreeman@ouhsc.edu.
(7)Department of Geriatric Medicine, The University of Oklahoma Health Sciences
Center, Oklahoma City, OK, 73104, USA. wfreeman@ouhsc.edu. (8)Harold Hamm
Diabetes Center, The University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, Oklahoma
City, OK, 73104, USA. wfreeman@ouhsc.edu. (9)Oklahoma Nathan Shock Center on
Aging, Oklahoma City, OK, 73104, USA. wfreeman@ouhsc.edu.

Mitochondria contain multiple copies of the circular mitochondrial genome (mtDNA)
that encodes ribosomal RNAs and proteins locally translated for oxidative
phosphorylation. Loss of mtDNA integrity, both altered copy number and increased 
mutations, is implicated in cellular dysfunction with aging. Published data on
mtDNA copy number and aging is discordant which may be due to methodological
limitations for quantifying mtDNA copy number. Existing quantitative PCR (qPCR)
mtDNA copy number quantification methods provide only relative abundances and are
problematic to normalize to different template input amounts and across
tissues/sample types. As well, existing methods cannot quantify mtDNA copy number
in subcellular isolates, such as isolated mitochondria and neuronal synaptic
terminals, which lack nuclear genomic DNA for normalization. We have developed
and validated a novel absolute mtDNA copy number quantitation method that uses
chip-based digital polymerase chain reaction (dPCR) to count the number of copies
of mtDNA and used this novel method to assess the literature discrepancy in which
there is no clear consensus whether mtDNA numbers change with aging in skeletal
muscle. Skeletal muscle in old mice was found to have increased absolute mtDNA
numbers compared to young controls. Furthermore, young Sod1 (-/-) mice were
assessed and show an age-mimicking increase in skeletal muscle mtDNA. These
findings reproduce a number of previous studies that demonstrate age-related
increases in mtDNA. This simple and cost effective dPCR approach should enable
precise and accurate mtDNA copy number quantitation in mitochondrial studies,
eliminating contradictory studies of mitochondrial DNA content with aging.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-016-9930-1 
PMCID: PMC5061674 [Available on 2017-08-01]
PMID: 27444179 

Conflict of interest statement: Compliance with ethical standards All procedures 
were approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee at the Oklahoma 
Medical Research Foundation. Competing interests The authors declare that they
have no competing interests.


343. Clin Chem. 2016 Sep;62(9):1238-47. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2016.255315. Epub 2016
Jul 20.

Multiplex Droplet Digital PCR Quantification of Recurrent Somatic Mutations in
Diffuse Large B-Cell and Follicular Lymphoma.

Alcaide M(1), Yu S(1), Bushell K(1), Fornika D(1), Nielsen JS(2), Nelson BH(2),
Mann KK(3), Assouline S(3), Johnson NA(3), Morin RD(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, Simon Fraser University,
Burnaby, BC, Canada; (2)Deeley Research Centre, BC Cancer Agency, Victoria, BC,
Canada; (3)Department of Medicine, Jewish General Hospital, Montreal, Quebec,
Canada; (4)Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, Simon Fraser
University, Burnaby, BC, Canada; Genome Sciences Centre, BC Cancer Agency,
Vancouver, BC, Canada. rdmorin@sfu.ca.

BACKGROUND: A plethora of options to detect mutations in tumor-derived DNA
currently exist but each suffers limitations in analytical sensitivity, cost, or 
scalability. Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) is an appealing technology for detecting
the presence of specific mutations based on a priori knowledge and can be applied
to tumor biopsies, including formalin-fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) tissues.
More recently, ddPCR has gained popularity in its utility in quantifying
circulating tumor DNA.
METHODS: We have developed a suite of novel ddPCR assays for detecting recurrent 
mutations that are prevalent in common B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHLs),
including diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, and
lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma. These assays allowed the differentiation and counting
of mutant and wild-type molecules using one single hydrolysis probe. We also
implemented multiplexing that allowed the simultaneous detection of distinct
mutations and an "inverted" ddPCR assay design, based on employing probes
matching wild-type alleles, capable of detecting the presence of multiple single 
nucleotide polymorphisms.
RESULTS: The assays successfully detected and quantified somatic mutations
commonly affecting enhancer of zeste 2 polycomb repressive complex 2 subunit
(EZH2) (Y641) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (STAT6)
(D419) hotspots in fresh tumor, FFPE, and liquid biopsies. The "inverted" ddPCR
approach effectively reported any single nucleotide variant affecting either of
these 2 hotspots as well. Finally, we could effectively multiplex hydrolysis
probes targeting 2 additional lymphoma-related hotspots: myeloid differentiation 
primary response 88 (MYD88; L265P) and cyclin D3 (CCND3; I290R).
CONCLUSIONS: Our suite of ddPCR assays provides sufficient analytical sensitivity
and specificity for either the invasive or noninvasive detection of multiple
recurrent somatic mutations in B-cell NHLs.

© 2016 American Association for Clinical Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2016.255315 
PMID: 27440511 


344. PLoS One. 2016 Jul 18;11(7):e0159004. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0159004.
eCollection 2016.

Comparison of Droplet Digital PCR and Quantitative PCR Assays for Quantitative
Detection of Xanthomonas citri Subsp. citri.

Zhao Y(1), Xia Q(1), Yin Y(1), Wang Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Science, Chongqing University, Chongqing, 400030, China.

Droplet digital polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR) is a novel molecular biology
technique providing absolute quantification of target nucleic acids without the
need for an external calibrator. Despite its emerging applications in medical
diagnosis, there are few reports of its use for the detection of plant pathogens.
This work was designed to assess the diagnosis potential of the ddPCR for
absolute quantitative detection of Xanthomonas citri subsp. citri, a quarantine
plant pathogenic bacterium that causes citrus bacterial canker in susceptible
Citrus species. We transferred an established quantitative PCR (qPCR) assay for
citrus bacterial canker diagnosis directly to the ddPCR format and compared the
performance of the two methods. The qPCR assay has a broader dynamic range
compared to the ddPCR assay and the ddPCR assay has a significantly higher degree
of sensitivity compared to the qPCR assay. The influence of PCR inhibitors can be
reduced considerably in the ddPCR assay because the collection of end-point
fluorescent signals and the counting of binomial events (positive or negative
droplets) are associated with a Poisson algorithm. The ddPCR assay also shows
lower coefficient of variation compared to the qPCR assay especially in low
target concentration. The linear association of the measurements by ddPCR and
qPCR assays is strong (Pearson correlation = 0.8633; P<0.001). Receiver operating
characteristic analysis indicates the ddPCR methodology is a more robust approach
for diagnosis of citrus bacterial canker. In summary, the results demonstrated
that the ddPCR assay has the potential for the quantitative detection of X. citri
subsp. citri with high precision and accuracy as compared with the results from
qPCR assay. Further studies are required to evaluate and validate the value of
ddPCR technology in the diagnosis of plant disease and quarantine applications.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0159004 
PMCID: PMC4948846
PMID: 27427975 


345. AIDS. 2016 Sep 24;30(15):2289-98. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0000000000001201.

Standard vaccines increase HIV-1 transcription during antiretroviral therapy.

Yek C(1), Gianella S, Plana M, Castro P, Scheffler K, García F, Massanella M,
Smith DM.

Author information: 
(1)aUniversity of California San Diego, La Jolla, California, USA bInstitut
d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS) cMedical Intensive Care
Unit dDepartment of Infectious Diseases, Hospital Clínic de Barcelona, University
of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain eVeterans Affairs Healthcare System, San Diego,
California, USA. *Present address: Christina Yek, University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas, USA. †Present address: Konrad
Scheffler, Illumina, San Diego, California, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Curative strategies using agents to perturb the HIV reservoir have
demonstrated only modest activity, whereas increases in viremia after standard
vaccination have been described. We investigated whether vaccination against
non-HIV pathogens can induce HIV transcription and thereby play a role in future 
eradication strategies.
DESIGN: A randomized controlled trial (NCT00329251) was performed to compare the 
effects of clinical vaccines with placebo on HIV transcription and immune
activation.
METHODS: Twenty-six HIV-infected individuals on suppressive antiretroviral
therapy were randomized to receive a vaccination schedule (n = 13) or placebo
(n = 13). Cell-associated RNA and DNA were extracted from peripheral blood
mononuclear cells, and HIV was quantified by droplet digital PCR using primers
for gag and 2-LTR (for HIV DNA), unspliced gag RNA (gag usRNA), multispliced
tat-rev RNA (tat-rev msRNA) and polyA mRNA.
RESULTS: Significant increases in gag usRNA after influenza/hepatitis B
vaccination (P = 0.02) and in gag usRNA (P = 0.04) and polyA mRNA (P = 0.04)
after pneumococcus/hepatitis B vaccination were seen in vaccinees but not
controls. HIV DNA and plasma HIV RNA did not change in either group. Increases in
CD4 and CD8 T-cell activation markers (P = 0.08 and P < 0.001, respectively) and 
HIV-specific CD8 responses (P = 0.04 for p24 gag, P = 0.01 for p17 gag and
P = 0.04 for total gag) were seen in vaccinees but not controls.
CONCLUSION: In this study, vaccination was associated with increases in HIV
cell-associated RNA and HIV-specific responses during antiretroviral therapy.
Using standard vaccines to stimulate HIV transcription may therefore be a useful 
component of future eradication strategies.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0000000000001201 
PMID: 27427877 


346. Vet Dermatol. 2017 Feb;28(1):134-e28. doi: 10.1111/vde.12345. Epub 2016 Jul 18.

Dermatopathology - the link between ancillary techniques and clinical lesions.

Affolter VK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Microbiology, Immunology, School of Veterinary
Medicine, University California Davis, One Shields Avenue, VM3A, Room 4206,
Davis, CA, 95616, USA.

BACKGROUND: Histopathology has been essential in advancing our knowledge in
veterinary dermatology. However, morphological features and histological patterns
cannot always reveal an aetiological diagnosis.
OBJECTIVES: Several ancillary techniques can assist in achieving an aetiological 
diagnosis. Some of these techniques have found their way into routine diagnostic 
dermatopathology, whereas others are still mainly used in research. This review
discusses the utility, strengths, advantages/disadvantages and challenges
associated with each technique.
METHODS: Digital microscopy, immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, salt-split
skin, Western blots, electron microscopy, PCR, in situ hybridization, tissue
microarrays, next-generation sequencing, DNA microarrays and laser
microdissection are discussed.
CONCLUSIONS: It is crucial to understand the limitations of each technique and to
correlate the results both with pathological findings and the clinical
presentation. As such, dermatopathology will remain the important link between
benchtop science, available results from ancillary techniques and clinical
veterinary dermatology.

© 2016 ESVD and ACVD.

DOI: 10.1111/vde.12345 
PMID: 27425847 


347. BMC Med Genomics. 2016 Jul 15;9(1):40. doi: 10.1186/s12920-016-0200-y.

Acute appendicitis: transcript profiling of blood identifies promising biomarkers
and potential underlying processes.

Chawla LS(1,)(2), Toma I(3), Davison D(1), Vaziri K(4), Lee J(1,)(4), Lucas R(5),
Seneff MG(5), Nyhan A(3), McCaffrey TA(6,)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care Medicine, The George Washington
University Medical Center, 2300 I Street, NW Ross 443, Washington, DC, 20037,
USA. (2)The Department of Medicine, Veterans Affairs Medical Center, The George
Washington University Medical Center, 2300 I Street, NW Ross 443, Washington, DC,
20037, USA. (3)Department of Medicine, Division of Genomic Medicine, The George
Washington University Medical Center, 2300 I Street, NW Ross 443, Washington, DC,
20037, USA. (4)Department of Surgery, The George Washington University Medical
Center, 2300 I Street, NW Ross 443, Washington, DC, 20037, USA. (5)Department of 
Emergency Medicine, The George Washington University Medical School and GW
Medical Faculty Associates, Washington, DC, USA. (6)Department of Medicine,
Division of Genomic Medicine, The George Washington University Medical Center,
2300 I Street, NW Ross 443, Washington, DC, 20037, USA. mcc@gwu.edu.
(7)Department of Microbiology, Immunology, and Tropical Medicine, The George
Washington University Medical Center, 2300 I Street, NW Ross 443, Washington, DC,
20037, USA. mcc@gwu.edu.

BACKGROUND: The diagnosis of acute appendicitis can be surprisingly difficult
without computed tomography, which carries significant radiation exposure.
Circulating blood cells may carry informative changes in their RNA expression
profile that would signal internal infection or inflammation of the appendix.
METHODS: Genome-wide expression profiling was applied to whole blood RNA of acute
appendicitis patients versus patients with other abdominal disorders, in order to
identify biomarkers of appendicitis. From a large cohort of emergency patients, a
discovery set of patients with surgically confirmed appendicitis, or abdominal
pain from other causes, was identified. RNA from whole blood was profiled by
microarrays, and RNA levels were filtered by a combined fold-change (>2) and p
value (<0.05). A separate set of patients, including patients with respiratory
infections, was used to validate a partial least squares discriminant (PLSD)
prediction model.
RESULTS: Transcript profiling identified 37 differentially expressed genes (DEG) 
in appendicitis versus abdominal pain patients. The DEG list contained 3 major
ontologies: infection-related, inflammation-related, and ribosomal processing.
Appendicitis patients had lower level of neutrophil defensin mRNA (DEFA1,3), but 
higher levels of alkaline phosphatase (ALPL) and interleukin-8 receptor-ß
(CXCR2/IL8RB), which was confirmed in a larger cohort of 60 patients using
droplet digital PCR (ddPCR).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with acute appendicitis have detectable changes in the mRNA
expression levels of factors related to neutrophil innate defense systems. The
low defensin mRNA levels suggest that appendicitis patient's immune cells are not
directly activated by pathogens, but are primed by diffusible factors in the
microenvironment of the infection. The detected biomarkers are consistent with
prior evidence that biofilm-forming bacteria in the appendix may be an important 
factor in appendicitis.

DOI: 10.1186/s12920-016-0200-y 
PMCID: PMC4946184
PMID: 27417541 


348. Eur Urol. 2016 Dec;70(6):916-919. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2016.06.035. Epub 2016
Jul 11.

A Prospective Blinded Evaluation of Urine-DNA Testing for Detection of Urothelial
Bladder Carcinoma in Patients with Gross Hematuria.

Dahmcke CM(1), Steven KE(2), Larsen LK(1), Poulsen AL(3), Abdul-Al A(1), Dahl
C(1), Guldberg P(4).

Author information: 
(1)Danish Cancer Society Research Center, Copenhagen, Denmark. (2)Department of
Urology, Herlev Hospital, University of Copenhagen, Herlev, Denmark. (3)Kirurgisk
Urologisk Klinik, Rødovre, Denmark. (4)Danish Cancer Society Research Center,
Copenhagen, Denmark. Electronic address: perg@cancer.dk.

Retrospective studies have provided proof of principle that bladder cancer can be
detected by testing for the presence of tumor DNA in urine. We have conducted a
prospective blinded study to determine whether a urine-based DNA test can replace
flexible cystoscopy in the initial assessment of gross hematuria. A total of 475 
consecutive patients underwent standard urological examination including flexible
cystoscopy and computed tomography urography, and provided urine samples
immediately before (n=461) and after (n=444) cystoscopy. Urine cells were
collected using a filtration device and tested for eight DNA mutation and
methylation biomarkers. Clinical evaluation identified 99 (20.8%) patients with
urothelial bladder tumors. With this result as a reference and based on the
analysis of all urine samples, the DNA test had a sensitivity of 97.0%, a
specificity of 76.9%, a positive predictive value of 52.5%, and a negative
predictive value of 99.0%. In three patients with a positive urine-DNA test
without clinical evidence of cancer, a tumor was detected at repeat cystoscopy
within 16 mo. Our results suggest that urine-DNA testing can be used to identify 
a large subgroup of patients with gross hematuria in whom cystoscopy is not
required.PATIENT SUMMARY: We tested the possibility of using a urine-based DNA
test to check for bladder cancer in patients with visible blood in the urine. Our
results show that the test efficiently detects bladder cancer and therefore may
be used to greatly reduce the number of patients who would need to undergo
cystoscopy.

Copyright © 2016 European Association of Urology. Published by Elsevier B.V. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2016.06.035 
PMID: 27417036 


349. PLoS One. 2016 Jul 14;11(7):e0159094. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0159094.
eCollection 2016.

Multiplex Detection of Rare Mutations by Picoliter Droplet Based Digital PCR:
Sensitivity and Specificity Considerations.

Zonta E(1), Garlan F(1), Pécuchet N(1,)(2), Perez-Toralla K(1), Caen O(1),
Milbury C(3), Didelot A(1), Fabre E(1,)(2), Blons H(1,)(4), Laurent-Puig
P(1,)(4), Taly V(1).

Author information: 
(1)Université Sorbonne Paris Cité (USPC), INSERM UMR-S1147, CNRS SNC 5014, Centre
Universitaire des Saints-Pères, Paris, France. (2)Medical oncology, Hôpital
Européen Georges Pompidou (HEGP), Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP), 
Paris, France. (3)RainDance Technologies, Billerica, Massachusetts, United States
of America. (4)Department of Biochemistry, Unit of pharmacogenetic and molecular 
oncology, Hôpital Européen Georges Pompidou (HEGP), Assistance Publique Hôpitaux 
de Paris (AP-HP), Paris, France.

In cancer research, the accuracy of the technology used for biomarkers detection 
is remarkably important. In this context, digital PCR represents a highly
sensitive and reproducible method that could serve as an appropriate tool for
tumor mutational status analysis. In particular, droplet-based digital PCR
approaches have been developed for detection of tumor-specific mutated alleles
within plasmatic circulating DNA. Such an approach calls for the development and 
validation of a very significant quantity of assays, which can be extremely
costly and time consuming. Herein, we evaluated assays for the detection and
quantification of various mutations occurring in three genes often misregulated
in cancers: the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), the v-Ki-ras2 Kirsten
rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (KRAS) and the Tumoral Protein p53 (TP53)
genes. In particular, commercial competitive allele-specific TaqMan® PCR
(castPCR™) technology, as well as TaqMan® and ZEN™ assays, have been evaluated
for EGFR p.L858R, p.T790M, p.L861Q point mutations and in-frame deletions Del19. 
Specificity and sensitivity have been determined on cell lines DNA, plasmatic
circulating DNA of lung cancer patients or Horizon Diagnostics Reference
Standards. To show the multiplexing capabilities of this technology, several
multiplex panels for EGFR (several three- and four-plexes) have been developed,
offering new "ready-to-use" tests for lung cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0159094 
PMCID: PMC4945036
PMID: 27416070 


350. PLoS One. 2016 Jul 14;11(7):e0155888. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0155888.
eCollection 2016.

Circulating Extracellular RNA Markers of Liver Regeneration.

Yan IK(1,)(2), Wang X(3), Asmann YW(3), Haga H(1,)(2), Patel T(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Transplantation, Mayo Clinic, 4500 San Pablo Road South,
Jacksonville, FL 32224, United States of America. (2)Department of Cancer
Biology, 4500 San Pablo Road South, Jacksonville, FL 32224, United States of
America. (3)Department of Health Sciences Research, 4500 San Pablo Road South,
Jacksonville, FL 32224, United States of America.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Although a key determinant of hepatic recovery after injury 
is active liver regeneration, the ability to detect ongoing regeneration is
lacking. The restoration of liver mass after hepatectomy involves systemic
changes with coordinated changes in gene expression guiding regenerative
responses, activation of progenitor cells, and proliferation of quiescent
hepatocytes. We postulated that these responses involve intercellular
communication involving extracellular RNA and that these could represent
biomarkers of active regenerative responses.
METHODS: RNA sequencing was performed to identify temporal changes in serum
extracellular non-coding RNA after partial hepatectomy in C57BL/6 male mice.
Tissue expression of selected RNA was performed by microarray analysis and
validated using qRT-PCR. Digital PCR was used to detect and quantify serum
expression of selected RNA.
RESULTS: A peak increase in extracellular RNA content occurred six hours after
hepatectomy. RNA sequencing identified alterations in several small non-coding
RNA including known and novel microRNAs, snoRNAs, tRNA, antisense and repeat
elements after partial hepatectomy. Combinatorial effects and network analyses
identified signal regulation, protein complex assembly, and signal transduction
as the most common biological processes targeted by miRNA that altered. miR-1A
and miR-181 were most significantly altered microRNA in both serum and in hepatic
tissues, and their presence in serum was quantitated using digital PCR.
CONCLUSIONS: Extracellular RNA selectively enriched during acute regeneration can
be detected within serum and represent biomarkers of ongoing liver regeneration
in mice. The ability to detect ongoing active regeneration would improve the
assessment of hepatic recovery from liver injury.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0155888 
PMCID: PMC4945050
PMID: 27415797 


351. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2016 Jul 1;57(8):3731-9. doi: 10.1167/iovs.16-19155.

miRNA Profile in Three Different Normal Human Ocular Tissues by miRNA-Seq.

Drewry M(1), Helwa I(1), Allingham RR(2), Hauser MA(3), Liu Y(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular Biology and Anatomy, Medical College of Georgia,
Augusta University, Augusta, Georgia, United States. (2)Department of
Ophthalmology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina, United
States. (3)Department of Medicine and Ophthalmology, Duke University Medical
Center, Durham, North Carolina, United States. (4)Department of Cellular Biology 
and Anatomy, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta University, Augusta, Georgia,
United States 4Center for Biotechnology and Genomic Medicine, Medical College of 
Georgia, Augusta University, Augusta, Georgia, United States 5Ja.

PURPOSE: Because microRNAs (miRNAs) have been associated with eye diseases, our
study aims to profile ocular miRNA expression in normal human ciliary body (CB), 
cornea, and trabecular meshwork (TM) using miRNA-Seq to provide a foundation for 
better understanding of miRNA function and disease involvement in these tissues.
METHODS: Total RNAs were extracted from seven normal human CB, seven cornea, and 
seven TM samples using mirVana total RNA isolation kit. miRNA-Seq was done with
Illumina MiSeq. Bowtie software was used to trim and align generated sequence
reads, and only exact matches to mature miRNAs from miRBase were included. The
miRTarBase database was used to analyze miRNA target interactions, and the
expression of five selected miRNAs was validated using droplet digital PCR
(ddPCR).
RESULTS: Using the miRNA extracted from 21 human samples, we found 378 miRNAs
collectively expressed, of which the 11 most abundant miRNAs represented 80% of
the total normalized reads. We also identified uniquely expressed miRNAs, of
which five share 18 highly validated gene targets, and created a profile of
miRNAs known to target genes associated with keratoconus and glaucoma. Using
ddPCR, we validated the expression profile of five miRNAs from miRNA-Seq.
CONCLUSIONS: For the first time, we profiled miRNA expression in three human
ocular tissues using miRNA-Seq, identifying many miRNAs that had not been
previously reported in ocular tissue. Defining the relative expression of miRNAs 
in nondiseased eye tissues could help uncover changes in miRNA expression that
accompany diseases such as glaucoma and keratoconus.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.16-19155 
PMCID: PMC4961003
PMID: 27415791 


352. Cell Metab. 2016 Jul 12;24(1):91-103. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2016.06.008.

Homeostatic Responses Regulate Selfish Mitochondrial Genome Dynamics in
C. elegans.

Gitschlag BL(1), Kirby CS(2), Samuels DC(3), Gangula RD(4), Mallal SA(5), Patel
MR(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37232,
USA; Interdisciplinary Graduate Program, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN
37232, USA. (2)Department of Biological Sciences, Vanderbilt University,
Nashville, TN 37232, USA; Biological Sciences Graduate Program, Vanderbilt
University, Nashville, TN 37232, USA. (3)Department of Molecular Physiology and
Biophysics, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37232, USA; Vanderbilt Genetics 
Institute, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37232, USA. (4)Department of
Medicine, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, TN 37232, USA.
(5)Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville,
TN 37232, USA; Department of Pathology, Microbiology and Immunology, Vanderbilt
University School of Medicine, Nashville, TN 37232, USA; Institute for Immunology
and Infectious Diseases, Murdoch University, Murdoch, WA 6150, Australia.
(6)Department of Biological Sciences, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37232,
USA; Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, Vanderbilt University,
Nashville, TN 37232, USA. Electronic address: maulik.r.patel@vanderbilt.edu.

Mutant mitochondrial genomes (mtDNA) can be viewed as selfish genetic elements
that persist in a state of heteroplasmy despite having potentially deleterious
metabolic consequences. We sought to study regulation of selfish mtDNA dynamics. 
We establish that the large 3.1-kb deletion-bearing mtDNA variant uaDf5 is a
selfish genome in Caenorhabditis elegans. Next, we show that uaDf5 mutant mtDNA
replicates in addition to, not at the expense of, wild-type mtDNA. These data
suggest the existence of a homeostatic copy-number control that is exploited by
uaDf5 to "hitchhike" to high frequency. We also observe activation of the
mitochondrial unfolded protein response (UPR(mt)) in uaDf5 animals. Loss of
UPR(mt) causes a decrease in uaDf5 frequency, whereas its constitutive activation
increases uaDf5 levels. UPR(mt) activation protects uaDf5 from mitophagy. Taken
together, we propose that mtDNA copy-number control and UPR(mt) represent two
homeostatic response mechanisms that play important roles in regulating selfish
mitochondrial genome dynamics.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2016.06.008 
PMCID: PMC5287496 [Available on 2017-07-12]
PMID: 27411011 


353. Dis Aquat Organ. 2016 Jul 7;120(2):143-50. doi: 10.3354/dao03018.

Experimental inoculation of Louisiana red swamp crayfish Procambarus clarkii with
white spot syndrome virus (WSSV).

Pace BT(1), Hawke JP, Subramanian R, Green CC.

Author information: 
(1)Louisiana State University Agricultural Center, Aquaculture Research Station, 
Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70820, USA.

The red swamp crayfish Procambarus clarkii represents an important aquaculture
species responsible for over half of all commercial aquaculture profits in
Louisiana, USA. White spot syndrome virus (WSSV) is highly pathogenic in
crustacean species and induces mass mortality in aquaculture operations
worldwide. Natural outbreaks of WSSV occur yearly in cultured populations of
crayfish in Louisiana. The goal of this study was to better understand the
infectivity of WSSV in P. clarkii, by determining the minimum lethal dose
necessary to initiate infection and to measure the resulting cumulative mortality
following infection with different doses. A real time quantitative PCR (qPCR)
method was used to detect WSSV in DNA extracted from gill tissue to ensure P.
clarkii study populations were WSSV-free before the start of trials. Viable viral
particles were isolated from naturally infected P. clarkii gill tissue and
quantified using a novel digital PCR approach. Three infectivity trials were
performed, and WSSV inocula were created by serial dilution, generating 5
treatments per trial. Five crayfish (weighing ~25 g) per dilution per trial
received viral inoculations. Mortality was monitored daily for the duration of
the trial in order to construct a median lethal dose (LD50) curve, and probit
regression analysis was used to determine LD50 concentrations of viral particles.
Knowledge of the infectivity of WSSV in native crayfish populations is of
critical importance to the management of the commercial crayfish aquaculture
industry in Louisiana. This is the first study to investigate the infectivity and
to determine the LD50 of the Louisiana strain of WSSV in native crayfish.

DOI: 10.3354/dao03018 
PMID: 27409237 


354. Environ Sci Technol. 2016 Aug 16;50(16):8770-9. doi: 10.1021/acs.est.6b01761.
Epub 2016 Jul 27.

Influence of Stream Bottom Substrate on Retention and Transport of Vertebrate
Environmental DNA.

Jerde CL(1,)(2), Olds BP(1,)(3), Shogren AJ(1), Andruszkiewicz EA(4,)(5), Mahon
AR(6), Bolster D(4), Tank JL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Environmental Change Initiative, University
of Notre Dame , Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, United States. (2)Biology Department, 
Global Water Center, University of Nevada , Reno, Nevada 89557, United States.
(3)Shrimp Department, Oceanic Institute of Hawai'i Pacific University ,
Waimanalo, Hawaii 96795, United States. (4)Department of Civil and Environmental 
Engineering and Earth Sciences, University of Notre Dame , Notre Dame, Indiana
46556, United States. (5)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering,
Stanford University , Stanford, California 94305, United States. (6)Department of
Biology, Institute for Great Lakes Research, Central Michigan University , Mount 
Pleasant, Michigan 48859, United States.

While environmental DNA (eDNA) is now being regularly used to detect rare and
elusive species, detection in lotic environments comes with a caveat: The species
being detected is likely some distance upstream from the point of sampling. Here,
we conduct a series of seminatural stream experiments to test the sensitivity of 
new digital droplet PCR (ddPCR) to detect low concentrations of eDNA in a lotic
system, measure the residence time of eDNA compared to a conservative tracer, and
we model the transport of eDNA in this system. We found that while ddPCR improves
our sensitivity of detection, the residence time and transport of eDNA does not
follow the same dynamics as the conservative tracer and necessitates a more
stochastic framework for modeling eDNA transport. There was no evidence for
differences in the transport of eDNA due to substrate type. The relatively large 
amount of unexplained variability in eDNA transport reveals the need for
uncovering mechanisms and processes by which eDNA is transported downstream
leading to species detections, particularly when inferences are to be made in
natural systems where eDNA is being used for conservation management.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.6b01761 
PMID: 27409250 


355. J Vis Exp. 2016 Jun 26;(112). doi: 10.3791/54102.

Circulating MicroRNA Quantification Using DNA-binding Dye Chemistry and Droplet
Digital PCR.

Ferracin M(1), Salamon I(2), Lupini L(2), Miotto E(2), Sabbioni S(3), Negrini
M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental, Diagnostic and Specialty Medicine - DIMES,
University of Bologna; manuela.ferracin@unibo.it. (2)Department of Morphology,
Surgery and Experimental Medicine, University of Ferrara. (3)Department of Life
Sciences and Biotechnology, University of Ferrara. (4)Department of Morphology,
Surgery and Experimental Medicine and Laboratory for Technologies of Advanced
Therapies (LTTA), University of Ferrara; ngm@unife.it.

Circulating (of cell-free) microRNAs (miRNAs) are released from cells into the
blood stream. The amount of specific microRNAs in the circulation has been linked
to a disease state and has the potential to be used as disease biomarker. A
sensitive and accurate method for circulating microRNA quantification using a
dye-based chemistry and droplet digital PCR technology has been recently
developed. Specifically, using Locked Nucleic Acid (LNA)-based miRNA-specific
primers with a green fluorescent DNA-binding dye in a compatible droplet digital 
PCR system it is possible to obtain the absolute quantification of specific
miRNAs. Here, we describe how performing this technique to assess miRNA amount in
biological fluids, such as plasma and serum, is both feasible and effective.

DOI: 10.3791/54102 
PMID: 27403944 


356. Biotechniques. 2016 Jul 1;61(1):26-32. doi: 10.2144/000114434. eCollection 2016.

Digital gene expression analysis with sample multiplexing and PCR duplicate
detection: A straightforward protocol.

Rozenberg A(1), Leese F(2), Weiss LC(3), Tollrian R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Ecology, Evolution and Biodiversity, Ruhr University
Bochum, Bochum, Germany. (2)Faculty of Biology, Aquatic Ecosystem Research,
University of Duisburg and Essen, Essen, Germany. (3)Environmental Genomics
Group, School of Biosciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.

Tag-Seq is a high-throughput approach used for discovering SNPs and
characterizing gene expression. In comparison to RNA-Seq, Tag-Seq eases data
processing and allows detection of rare mRNA species using only one tag per
transcript molecule. However, reduced library complexity raises the issue of PCR 
duplicates, which distort gene expression levels. Here we present a novel Tag-Seq
protocol that uses the least biased methods for RNA library preparation combined 
with a novel approach for joint PCR template and sample labeling. In our
protocol, input RNA is fragmented by hydrolysis, and poly(A)-bearing RNAs are
selected and directly ligated to mixed DNA-RNA P5 adapters. The P5 adapters
contain i5 barcodes composed of sample-specific (moderately) degenerate base
regions (mDBRs), which later allow detection of PCR duplicates. The P7 adapter is
attached via reverse transcription with individual i7 barcodes added during the
amplification step. The resulting libraries can be sequenced on an Illumina
sequencer. After sample demultiplexing and PCR duplicate removal with a free
software tool we designed, the data are ready for downstream analysis. Our
protocol was tested on RNA samples from predator-induced and control Daphnia
microcrustaceans.

DOI: 10.2144/000114434 
PMID: 27401671 


357. PLoS One. 2016 Jul 11;11(7):e0159085. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0159085.
eCollection 2016.

Transcriptome Analysis of Capsicum Chlorosis Virus-Induced Hypersensitive
Resistance Response in Bell Capsicum.

Widana Gamage SM(1), McGrath DJ(2), Persley DM(3), Dietzgen RG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Queensland Alliance for Agriculture and Food Innovation, The University of
Queensland, St Lucia, Queensland, Australia. (2)Queensland Department of
Agriculture and Fisheries, AgriScience Queensland, Gatton, Queensland, Australia.
(3)Queensland Department of Agriculture and Fisheries, AgriScience Queensland,
EcoSciences Precinct, Dutton Park, Queensland, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Capsicum chlorosis virus (CaCV) is an emerging pathogen of capsicum, 
tomato and peanut crops in Australia and South-East Asia. Commercial capsicum
cultivars with CaCV resistance are not yet available, but CaCV resistance
identified in Capsicum chinense is being introgressed into commercial Bell
capsicum. However, our knowledge of the molecular mechanisms leading to the
resistance response to CaCV infection is limited. Therefore, transcriptome and
expression profiling data provide an important resource to better understand CaCV
resistance mechanisms.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We assembled capsicum transcriptomes and analysed
gene expression using Illumina HiSeq platform combined with a tag-based digital
gene expression system. Total RNA extracted from CaCV/mock inoculated CaCV
resistant (R) and susceptible (S) capsicum at the time point when R line showed a
strong hypersensitive response to CaCV infection was used in transcriptome
assembly. Gene expression profiles of R and S capsicum in CaCV- and
buffer-inoculated conditions were compared. None of the genes were differentially
expressed (DE) between R and S cultivars when mock-inoculated, while 2484 genes
were DE when inoculated with CaCV. Functional classification revealed that the
most highly up-regulated DE genes in R capsicum included pathogenesis-related
genes, cell death-associated genes, genes associated with hormone-mediated
signalling pathways and genes encoding enzymes involved in synthesis of
defense-related secondary metabolites. We selected 15 genes to confirm DE
expression levels by real-time quantitative PCR.
CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: DE transcript profiling data provided comprehensive gene
expression information to gain an understanding of the underlying CaCV resistance
mechanisms. Further, we identified candidate CaCV resistance genes in the
CaCV-resistant C. annuum x C. chinense breeding line. This knowledge will be
useful in future for fine mapping of the CaCV resistance locus and potential
genetic engineering of resistance into CaCV-susceptible crops.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0159085 
PMCID: PMC4939944
PMID: 27398596 


358. Microbiologyopen. 2016 Dec;5(6):901-922. doi: 10.1002/mbo3.383. Epub 2016 Jul 10.

Recent developments in detection and enumeration of waterborne bacteria: a
retrospective minireview.

Deshmukh RA(1), Joshi K(1), Bhand S(2), Roy U(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Birla Institute of Technology and Science, 
Pilani-K.K. Birla Goa Campus, NH17B Bypass, Zuarinagar, Goa, 403726, India.
(2)Biosensor Lab, Department of Chemistry, Birla Institute of Technology and
Science, Pilani-K.K. Birla Goa Campus, NH17B Bypass, Zuarinagar, Goa, 403726,
India.

Waterborne diseases have emerged as global health problems and their rapid and
sensitive detection in environmental water samples is of great importance.
Bacterial identification and enumeration in water samples is significant as it
helps to maintain safe drinking water for public consumption. Culture-based
methods are laborious, time-consuming, and yield false-positive results, whereas 
viable but nonculturable (VBNCs) microorganisms cannot be recovered. Hence,
numerous methods have been developed for rapid detection and quantification of
waterborne pathogenic bacteria in water. These rapid methods can be classified
into nucleic acid-based, immunology-based, and biosensor-based detection methods.
This review summarizes the principle and current state of rapid methods for the
monitoring and detection of waterborne bacterial pathogens. Rapid methods
outlined are polymerase chain reaction (PCR), digital droplet PCR, real-time PCR,
multiplex PCR, DNA microarray, Next-generation sequencing (pyrosequencing,
Illumina technology and genomics), and fluorescence in situ hybridization that
are categorized as nucleic acid-based methods. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
(ELISA) and immunofluorescence are classified into immunology-based methods.
Optical, electrochemical, and mass-based biosensors are grouped into
biosensor-based methods. Overall, these methods are sensitive, specific,
time-effective, and important in prevention and diagnosis of waterborne bacterial
diseases.

© 2016 The Authors. MicrobiologyOpen published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/mbo3.383 
PMCID: PMC5221461
PMID: 27397728 


359. Genetica. 2016 Aug;144(4):445-55. doi: 10.1007/s10709-016-9913-2. Epub 2016 Jul
8.

Identification of differentially expressed genes associated with differential
body size in mandarin fish (Siniperca chuatsi).

Tian C(1,)(2), Li L(1,)(2), Liang XF(3,)(4), He S(1,)(2), Guo W(1,)(2), Lv
L(1,)(2), Wang Q(1,)(2), Song Y(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Fisheries, Chinese Perch Research Center, Huazhong Agricultural
University, Wuhan, 430070, China. (2)Freshwater Aquaculture Collaborative
Innovation Center of Hubei Province, Key Lab of Freshwater Animal Breeding,
Ministry of Agriculture, Wuhan, 430070, China. (3)College of Fisheries, Chinese
Perch Research Center, Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan, 430070, China.
xufang_liang@hotmail.com. (4)Freshwater Aquaculture Collaborative Innovation
Center of Hubei Province, Key Lab of Freshwater Animal Breeding, Ministry of
Agriculture, Wuhan, 430070, China. xufang_liang@hotmail.com.

Body size is an obvious and important characteristic of fish. Mandarin fish
Siniperca chuatsi (Basilewsky) is one of the most valuable perciform species
widely cultured in China. Individual differences in body size are common in
mandarin fish and significantly influence the aquaculture production. However,
little is currently known about its genetic control. In this study, digital gene 
expression profiling and transcriptome sequencing were performed in mandarin fish
with differential body size at 30 and 180 days post-hatch (dph), respectively.
Body weight, total length and body length of fish with big-size were
significantly higher than those with small-size at both 30 and 180 dph
(P < 0.05). 2171 and 2014 differentially expressed genes were identified between 
small-size and big-size fish at 30 and 180 dph, respectively. RT quantitative PCR
(qPCR) analysis showed that the differential expression of 10 selected genes in
mandarin fish that went through the same training procedure. The genes were
involved in the growth hormone-insulin-like growth factor axis, cell
proliferation and differentiation, appetite control, glucose metabolism,
reproduction and sexual size dimorphism pathways. This study will help toward a
comprehensive understanding of the complexity of regulation of body size in
mandarin fish individuals and provide valuable information for future research.

DOI: 10.1007/s10709-016-9913-2 
PMID: 27393605  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Lung Cancer. 2016 Aug;98:29-32. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2016.05.003. Epub 2016 May
11.

Temporal changes of EGFR mutations and T790M levels in tumour and plasma DNA
following AZD9291 treatment.

Chia PL(1), Do H(2), Morey A(3), Mitchell P(4), Dobrovic A(2), John T(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Austin Health, Melbourne, Australia; Olivia
Newton-John Cancer Research Institute, Austin Health, Melbourne, Australia.
Electronic address: PueyLing.CHIA@onjcri.org.au. (2)Translational Genomics and
Epigenomics Laboratory, Olivia Newton-John Cancer Research Institute, Victoria
3084, Australia,; Department of Pathology, University of Melbourne, Parkville,
Victoria, 3010, Australia; School of Cancer Medicine, La Trobe University,
Bundoora, Victoria 3084, Australia. (3)Department of Anatomical Pathology, St
Vincent's Hospital, Sydney, Australia. (4)Department of Medical Oncology, Austin 
Health, Melbourne, Australia; Olivia Newton-John Cancer Research Institute,
Austin Health, Melbourne, Australia.

AZD9291, a T790M specific epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase
inhibitor (TKI), has demonstrated impressive response rates in tumours harbouring
the EGFR T790M resistance mutation. Emergence of resistance to AZD9291 has been
shown to occur through several different mechanisms including the development of 
new mutations (e.g. C797S) in the EGFR tyrosine kinase domain. We studied two
patients with paired tumour biopsies and blood samples pre- and post-progression 
on AZD9291 to explore possible resistance mechanisms. Pre- and Post-AZD9291
tumour biopsies as well as serial plasma samples were collected from two patients
on the AURA clinical study (AZD9291 First Time in Patients Ascending Dose study).
Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) assays were used to quantify T790M, the driver EGFR
mutation, and the C797S mutation in genomic DNA from paired tumour biopsies and
plasma cell-free DNA. In the first patient, both EGFR T790M and L858R became
undetectable in the plasma within 1 month after treatment with AZD9291. However, 
the T790M and the original L858R mutation re-emerged with radiologically
confirmed resistance to AZD9291. In patient two, the levels of T790M were
undetectable at the time of radiological resistance to AZD9291 but increasing
levels of the original EGFR exon 19 deletion was detected. MET amplification was 
detected in a biopsy performed on progression. The EGFR C797S mutation was not
detected in either patient at the time of relapse. ddPCR of cell free DNA enables
real time monitoring of patients on 3rd generation TKIs. As resistance mechanisms
are variable, monitoring levels of the initial activating EGFR mutation may
facilitate more reliable detection of progression.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2016.05.003 
PMID: 27393503 


361. Int J Hematol. 2016 Oct;104(4):491-501. doi: 10.1007/s12185-016-2054-7. Epub 2016
Jul 5.

Iron-induced epigenetic abnormalities of mouse bone marrow through aberrant
activation of aconitase and isocitrate dehydrogenase.

Yamamoto M(1), Tanaka H(2,)(3), Toki Y(1), Hatayama M(1), Ito S(1), Addo L(1),
Shindo M(1), Sasaki K(4), Ikuta K(1), Ohtake T(5), Fujiya M(1), Torimoto Y(6),
Kohgo Y(5).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hematology/Oncology, Asahikawa Medical
University, Asahikawa, Hokkaido, Japan. (2)Department of Gastrointestinal
Immunology and Regenerative Medicine, Asahikawa Medical University, 2-1-1-1
Midorigaoka-Higashi, Asahikawa, Hokkaido, 078-8510, Japan.
hiroki-t@asahikawa-med.ac.jp. (3)Department of Legal Medicine, Asahikawa Medical 
University, Asahikawa, Hokkaido, Japan. hiroki-t@asahikawa-med.ac.jp.
(4)Department of Gastrointestinal Immunology and Regenerative Medicine, Asahikawa
Medical University, 2-1-1-1 Midorigaoka-Higashi, Asahikawa, Hokkaido, 078-8510,
Japan. (5)International University of Health and Welfare Hospital, Nasu-shiobara,
Tochigi, Japan. (6)Oncology Center, Asahikawa Medical University Hospital,
Asahikawa, Hokkaido, Japan.

Iron overload remains a concern in myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) patients. Iron 
chelation therapy (ICT) thus plays an integral role in the management of these
patients. Moreover, ICT has been shown to prolong leukemia-free survival in MDS
patients; however, the mechanisms responsible for this effect are unclear. Iron
is a key molecule for regulating cytosolic aconitase 1 (ACO1). Additionally, the 
mutation of isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH), the enzyme downstream of ACO1 in the 
TCA cycle, is associated with epigenetic abnormalities secondary to
2-hydroxyglutarate (2-HG) and DNA methylation. However, epigenetic abnormalities 
observed in many MDS patients occur without IDH mutation. We hypothesized that
iron itself activates the ACO1-IDH pathway, which may increase 2-HG and DNA
methylation, and eventually contribute to leukemogenesis without IDH mutation.
Using whole RNA sequencing of bone marrow cells in iron-overloaded mice, we
observed that the enzymes, phosphoglucomutase 1, glycogen debranching enzyme, and
isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (Idh1), which are involved in glycogen and glucose
metabolism, were increased. Digital PCR further showed that Idh1 and Aco1,
enzymes involved in the TCA cycle, were also elevated. Additionally, enzymatic
activities of TCA cycle and methylated DNA were increased. Iron chelation
reversed these phenomena. In conclusion, iron activation of glucose metabolism
causes an increase of 2-HG and DNA methylation.

DOI: 10.1007/s12185-016-2054-7 
PMID: 27380194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Fish Shellfish Immunol. 2016 Sep;56:1-11. doi: 10.1016/j.fsi.2016.06.059. Epub
2016 Jul 1.

Analysis of digital gene expression profiling in hemocytes of white shrimp
Litopenaeus vannamei under nitrite stress.

Guo H(1), Xian JA(2), Wang AL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Marine Ecology and Aquaculture Environment of Zhanjiang,
College of Fisheries, Guangdong Ocean University, Zhanjiang, 524025, People's
Republic of China. Electronic address: guoh@gdou.edu.cn. (2)Institute of Tropical
Bioscience and Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Tropical Agricultural Sciences, 
Haikou, 571101, People's Republic of China. (3)Key Laboratory of Ecology and
Environmental Science of Guangdong Higher Education Institutes, Guangdong
Provincial Key Laboratory for Healthy and Safe Aquaculture, School of Life
Science, South China Normal University, Guangzhou, 510631, People's Republic of
China.

Accumulation of nitrite in water is highly toxic to aquatic animals. To
understand immune responses in shrimp under such environmental stress, a digital 
gene expression (DGE) technology was applied to detect the gene expression
profile of the Litopenaeus vannamei hemocytes in response to nitrite for 48 h. A 
total of 1922 differently expressed unigenes were generated. Of these
transcripts, 1269 and 653 genes were up- or down-regulated respectively.
Functional categorization and pathways of the differentially expressed genes
revealed that immune defense, xenobiotics biodegradation and metabolism, amino
acid and nucleobase metabolic process, apoptosis were the differentially
regulated processes occurring during nitrite stress. We selected 19 differential 
expression transcripts (DETs) to validate the sequencing results by real time
quantitative PCR (qPCR). The Pearson's correlation coefficient (R) of the 19 DETs
was 0.843, which confirmed the consistency and accuracy between these two
approaches. Subsequently, we screened 10 genes to examine the changes in the time
course of gene expression in more detail. The results indicated that expressions 
of ATP-binding cassette transporter (ABC transporter), caspase10, QM protein, C
type lectin 4 (CTL4), protein disulfide isomerase (PDI), serine protease
inhibitor 8 (SPI8), transglutaminase (TGase), chitinase1, inhibitors of apoptosis
proteins (IAP) and cytochrome P450 enzyme (CYP450) were induced to participate in
the anti-stress defense against nitrite. These results will provide a reference
for follow-up study of molecular toxicology and valuable gene information for
better understanding of immune response in L. vannamei under environmental
stress.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsi.2016.06.059 
PMID: 27377029  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Ann Hematol. 2016 Sep;95(9):1559-60. doi: 10.1007/s00277-016-2739-2. Epub 2016
Jul 1.

Droplet digital PCR assay for quantifying of CALR mutant allelic burden in
myeloproliferative neoplasms.

Anelli L(1), Zagaria A(1), Coccaro N(1), Tota G(1), Minervini A(1), Casieri P(1),
Impera L(1), Minervini CF(1), Brunetti C(1), Ricco A(1), Orsini P(1), Cumbo C(1),
Specchia G(1), Albano F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Emergency and Organ Transplantation (D.E.T.O.), Hematology
Section, University of Bari, P.zza G. Cesare, 11, 70124, Bari, Italy.
(2)Department of Emergency and Organ Transplantation (D.E.T.O.), Hematology
Section, University of Bari, P.zza G. Cesare, 11, 70124, Bari, Italy.
francesco.albano@uniba.it.

DOI: 10.1007/s00277-016-2739-2 
PMID: 27365140  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Angew Chem Int Ed Engl. 2016 Aug 8;55(33):9557-61. doi: 10.1002/anie.201602763.
Epub 2016 Jun 30.

Digital Quantification of DNA Replication and Chromosome Segregation Enables
Determination of Antimicrobial Susceptibility after only 15 Minutes of Antibiotic
Exposure.

Schoepp NG(1), Khorosheva EM(1), Schlappi TS(1), Curtis MS(1), Humphries RM(2),
Hindler JA(2), Ismagilov RF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, California Institute of
Technology, 1200 E. California Blvd., Pasadena, CA, 91125, USA. (2)Pathology and 
Laboratory Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, 10888 Le Conte
Avenue, Brentwood Annex, Los Angeles, CA, 90095, USA. (3)Division of Chemistry
and Chemical Engineering, California Institute of Technology, 1200 E. California 
Blvd., Pasadena, CA, 91125, USA. rustem.admin@caltech.edu.

Rapid antimicrobial susceptibility testing (AST) would decrease misuse and
overuse of antibiotics. The "holy grail" of AST is a phenotype-based test that
can be performed within a doctor visit. Such a test requires the ability to
determine a pathogen's susceptibility after only a short antibiotic exposure.
Herein, digital PCR (dPCR) was employed to test whether measuring DNA replication
of the target pathogen through digital single-molecule counting would shorten the
required time of antibiotic exposure. Partitioning bacterial chromosomal DNA into
many small volumes during dPCR enabled AST results after short exposure times by 
1) precise quantification and 2) a measurement of how antibiotics affect the
states of macromolecular assembly of bacterial chromosomes. This digital AST
(dAST) determined susceptibility of clinical isolates from urinary tract
infections (UTIs) after 15 min of exposure for all four antibiotic classes
relevant to UTIs. This work lays the foundation to develop a rapid, point-of-care
AST and strengthen global antibiotic stewardship.

© 2016 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/anie.201602763 
PMCID: PMC5215780 [Available on 2017-08-08]
PMID: 27357747 


365. Clin Chem. 2016 Jul;62(7):1012-9. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2016.256388.

Comparison of 3 Methodologies for Genotyping of Small Deletion and Insertion
Polymorphisms.

Goh SK(1), Musafer A(2), Witkowski T(2), Muralidharan V(3), Christophi C(3), Do
H(4), Dobrovic A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Genomics and Epigenomics Laboratory, Olivia Newton-John Cancer
Research Institute, Heidelberg, Victoria, Australia; Department of Surgery,
University of Melbourne, Austin Health, Heidelberg, Victoria, Australia;
(2)Translational Genomics and Epigenomics Laboratory, Olivia Newton-John Cancer
Research Institute, Heidelberg, Victoria, Australia; (3)Department of Surgery,
University of Melbourne, Austin Health, Heidelberg, Victoria, Australia;
(4)Translational Genomics and Epigenomics Laboratory, Olivia Newton-John Cancer
Research Institute, Heidelberg, Victoria, Australia; School of Cancer Medicine,
La Trobe University, Victoria, Australia; Department of Pathology, University of 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. alex.dobrovic@onjcri.org.au
hongdo.do@onjcri.org.au.

BACKGROUND: The quantification of genomic chimerism is increasingly recognized
for its clinical significance after transplantation. Before the measurement of
chimerism, accurate genotyping of genetic polymorphisms for informative alleles
that can distinguish donor DNA from recipient DNA is essential. The ease of
allelic discrimination of small deletion and insertion polymorphisms (DIPs) makes
DIPs attractive markers to track chimerism. Current methodologies for the
genotyping of DIPs are largely based on "open-tube" approaches. "Closed-tube"
approaches involving no or minimal post-PCR handling are preferred. We compared 3
distinct methodologies to determine an optimal platform for DIP genotyping.
METHODS: Genomic DNA from 19 normal individuals was genotyped for 6 small
biallelic DIPs using high-resolution melting analysis (HRMA), probe-free droplet 
digital PCR (ddPCR), and microfluidic electrophoresis of PCR products. For HRMA, 
3 different platforms were compared.
RESULTS: Our newly developed probe-free ddPCR approach allowed the genotype of
each DIP to be determined by fluorescence intensity based on amplicon size.
Microfluidic electrophoresis also allowed genotypes to be determined by amplicon 
size. HRMA assays allowed the genotype of each DIP to be determined by melting
profile. Genotyping results were concordant between the 3 methodologies. HRMA was
the most readily performed methodology and was robust across 3 separate
HRMA-capable platforms.
CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrated the effectiveness of probe-free ddPCR to accurately 
genotype small biallelic DIPs. Nevertheless, HRMA proved to be the optimal
approach for genotyping small DIPs because closed-tube approaches are preferred
owing to rapid and less laborious workflows and least risk of PCR contamination.

© 2016 American Association for Clinical Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2016.256388 
PMID: 27354569 


366. Microbiologyopen. 2016 Dec;5(6):1016-1026. doi: 10.1002/mbo3.385. Epub 2016 Jun
28.

Possible association of diazotrophs with marine zooplankton in the Pacific Ocean.

Azimuddin KM(1), Hirai J(2), Suzuki S(1), Haider MN(1), Tachibana A(1), Watanabe 
K(1), Kitamura M(3), Hashihama F(4), Takahashi K(5), Hamasaki K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Atmosphere and Ocean Research Institute, The University of Tokyo, Kashiwa,
Chiba, Japan. (2)National Research Institute of Fisheries Science, Fisheries
Research Agency, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan. (3)Japan Agency for Marine-Earth
Science and Technology, Yokosuka, Kanagawa, Japan. (4)Department of Ocean
Sciences, Tokyo University of Marine Science and Technology, Minato-Ku, Tokyo,
Japan. (5)Department of Aquatic Science, Graduate School of Agriculture and Life 
Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-Ku, Tokyo, Japan.

Dinitrogen fixation, the biological reduction in N2 gas to ammonia contributes to
the supply of new nitrogen in the surface ocean. To understand the diversity and 
abundance of potentially diazotrophic (N2 fixing) microorganisms associated with 
marine zooplankton, especially copepods, the nifH gene was studied using
zooplankton samples collected in the Pacific Ocean. In total, 257 nifH sequences 
were recovered from 23 nifH-positive DNA extracts out of 90 copepod samples. The 
nifH genes derived from cyanobacteria related to Trichodesmium, α- and
γ-subdivisions of proteobacteria, and anaerobic euryarchaeota related to
Methanosaeta concilii were detected. Our results indicated that Pleuromamma,
Pontella, and Euchaeta were the major copepod genera hosting dinitrogen fixers,
though we found no species-specific association between copepods and dinitrogen
fixers. Also, the digital PCR provided novel data on the number of copies of the 
nifH gene in individual copepods, which we report the range from 30 to 1666
copies per copepod. This study is the first systematic study of
zooplankton-associated diazotrophs, covering a large area of the open ocean,
which provide a clue to further study of a possible new hotspot of N2 fixation.

© 2016 The Authors. MicrobiologyOpen published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/mbo3.385 
PMCID: PMC5221459
PMID: 27353240 


367. Mol Diagn Ther. 2016 Oct;20(5):437-47. doi: 10.1007/s40291-016-0224-1.

The Future of Digital Polymerase Chain Reaction in Virology.

Vynck M(1), Trypsteen W(2), Thas O(1,)(3), Vandekerckhove L(2), De Spiegelaere
W(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mathematical Modelling, Statistics and Bioinformatics, Ghent
University, Ghent, Belgium. (2)HIV Translational Research Unit, Department of
Internal Medicine, Ghent University, Depintelaan 185, 9000, Ghent, Belgium.
(3)National Institute for Applied Statistics Research Australia, School of
Mathematics and Applied Statistics, University of Wollongong, Wollongong, NSW,
Australia. (4)HIV Translational Research Unit, Department of Internal Medicine,
Ghent University, Depintelaan 185, 9000, Ghent, Belgium.
Ward.DeSpiegelaere@UGent.be.

Driven by its potential benefits over currently available methods, and the recent
development of commercial platforms, digital polymerase chain reaction (dPCR) has
received increasing attention in virology research and diagnostics as a tool for 
the quantification of nucleic acids. The current technologies are more precise
and accurate, but may not be much more sensitive, compared with quantitative PCR 
(qPCR) applications. The most promising applications with the current technology 
are the analysis of mutated sequences, such as emerging drug-resistant mutations.
Guided by the recent literature, this review focuses on three aspects that
demonstrate the potential of dPCR for virology researchers and clinicians: the
applications of dPCR within both virology research and clinical virology, the
benefits of the technique over the currently used real-time qPCR, and the
importance and availability of specific data analysis approaches for dPCR.
Comments are provided on current drawbacks and often overlooked pitfalls that
need further attention to allow widespread implementation of dPCR as an accurate 
and precise tool within the field of virology.

DOI: 10.1007/s40291-016-0224-1 
PMID: 27351921 


368. Cancer. 2016 Oct;122(19):3015-23. doi: 10.1002/cncr.30144. Epub 2016 Jun 28.

Highly personalized detection of minimal Ewing sarcoma disease burden from plasma
tumor DNA.

Hayashi M(1), Chu D(1), Meyer CF(1), Llosa NJ(1), McCarty G(1), Morris CD(2),
Levin AS(2), Wolinsky JP(3), Albert CM(1), Steppan DA(1), Park BH(1), Loeb DM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, Maryland. (2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland. (3)Department of
Neurosurgery, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.
(4)Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, Maryland. loebda@jhmi.edu.

BACKGROUND: Even though virtually all patients with Ewing sarcoma achieve a
radiographic complete response, up to 30% of patients who present with localized 
disease and up to 90% of those who present with metastases experience a
metastatic disease recurrence, highlighting the inability to identify patients
with residual disease at the end of therapy. Up to 95% of Ewing sarcomas carry a 
driving EWS-ETS translocation that has an intronic breakpoint that is specific to
each tumor, and the authors developed a system to quantitatively detect the
specific breakpoint DNA fragment in patient plasma.
METHODS: The authors used a long-range multiplex polymerase chain reaction (PCR) 
technique to identify tumor-specific EWS-ETS breakpoints in Ewing sarcoma cell
lines, patient-derived xenografts, and patient tumors, and this sequence was used
to design tumor-specific primer sets to detect plasma tumor DNA (ptDNA) by
droplet digital PCR in xenograft-bearing mice and patients.
RESULTS: Tumor-specific breakpoint DNA fragments were detected in the plasma of
xenograft-bearing mice, and the signal correlated with tumor burden during
primary tumor growth, after surgical resection, and at the time of metastatic
disease recurrence. Furthermore, the authors were able to detect the specific
breakpoint in plasma DNA obtained from 3 patients with Ewing sarcoma and in 2
patients the authors were able to detect ptDNA when there was radiographically
undetectable disease present.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of droplet digital PCR to detect tumor-specific EWS-ETS
fusion gene breakpoint ptDNA fragments can be developed into a highly
personalized biomarker of disease recurrence that can be optimized in animal
studies for ultimate use in patients. Cancer 2016;122:3015-3023. © 2016 American 
Cancer Society.

© 2016 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.30144 
PMCID: PMC5102400 [Available on 2017-10-01]
PMID: 27351911 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no conflict of
interest exists.


369. Int J Lab Hematol. 2016 Aug;38(4):435-43. doi: 10.1111/ijlh.12520. Epub 2016 Jun 
28.

Rapid detection of α-thalassaemia variants using droplet digital PCR.

Lee TY(1), Lai MI(1), Ramachandran V(2), Tan JA(3), Teh LK(4), Othman R(5),
Hussein NH(5), George E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Universiti
Putra Malaysia, Serdang, Malaysia. (2)Malaysian Research Institute on Ageing,
Universiti Putra Malaysia, Serdang, Malaysia. (3)Department of Biomedical
Science, Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(4)Department of Biomedical Science, Faculty of Science, Universiti Tunku Abdul
Rahman, Kampar, Malaysia. (5)Department of Pathology, Hospital Kuala Lumpur,
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

INTRODUCTION: Alpha thalassaemia is a highly prevalent disease globally and is a 
well-known public health problem in Malaysia. The deletional forms of the
mutation are the most common forms found in alpha thalassaemia. The three most
common deletional alpha thalassaemia found in this region include --(SEA)
deletion, -α(3.7) rightward and -α(4.2) leftward deletions. The prevalence rate
of triplication alpha cases such as ααα(anti3.7) and ααα(anti4.2) is not known in
Malaysia although it plays a role in exacerbating the clinical phenotypes in beta
thalassaemia carriers. Recently, there have been more reported cases of rare
alpha thalassaemia mutations due to the advancement of molecular techniques
involved in thalassaemia detections. Therefore, it is essential to develop a new 
method which allows the detection of different alpha thalassaemia mutations
including the rare ones simultaneously and accurately.
METHODS: The purpose of this study was to design an assay for the detection of
triplications, common and rare deletional alpha thalassaemia using droplet
digital PCR (ddPCR).
RESULTS: This is a quantitative detection method to measure the changes of copy
number which can detect deletions, duplications and triplications of the alpha
globin gene simultaneously.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, ddPCR is an alternative method for rapid detection of 
alpha thalassaemia variants in Malaysia.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ijlh.12520 
PMID: 27349818  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Biomol Detect Quantif. 2016 Mar 9;8:1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.bdq.2016.02.001.
eCollection 2016.

Development of NIST standard reference material 2373: Genomic DNA standards for
HER2 measurements.

He HJ(1), Almeida JL(1), Lund SP(2), Steffen CR(3), Choquette S(1), Cole KD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Bioassay Methods Group, Biosystems and Biomaterials Division, National
Institute of Standards and Technology, 100 Bureau Drive, Gaithersburg, MD 20899, 
USA. (2)Statistical Engineering Division, National Institute of Standards and
Technology, 100 Bureau Drive, Gaithersburg, MD 20899, USA. (3)Applied Genetics
Group, Biomolecular Measurements Division, National Institute of Standards and
Technology, 100 Bureau Drive, Gaithersburg, MD 20899, USA.

NIST standard reference material (SRM) 2373 was developed to improve the
measurements of the HER2 gene amplification in DNA samples. SRM 2373 consists of 
genomic DNA extracted from five breast cancer cell lines with different amounts
of amplification of the HER2 gene. The five components are derived from the human
cell lines SK-BR-3, MDA-MB-231, MDA-MB-361, MDA-MB-453, and BT-474. The certified
values are the ratios of the HER2 gene copy numbers to the copy numbers of
selected reference genes DCK, EIF5B, RPS27A, and PMM1. The ratios were measured
using quantitative polymerase chain reaction and digital PCR, methods that gave
similar ratios. The five components of SRM 2373 have certified HER2 amplification
ratios that range from 1.3 to 17.7. The stability and homogeneity of the
reference materials were shown by repeated measurements over a period of several 
years. SRM 2373 is a well characterized genomic DNA reference material that can
be used to improve the confidence of the measurements of HER2 gene copy number.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bdq.2016.02.001 
PMCID: PMC4906140
PMID: 27335805 


371. Mol Ecol Resour. 2016 Jun 22. doi: 10.1111/1755-0998.12562. [Epub ahead of print]

Measuring microbial fitness in a field reciprocal transplant experiment.

Boynton PJ(1), Stelkens R(1), Kowallik V(1), Greig D(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology, August-Thienemann-Str. 2,
24306, Plön, Germany. (2)The Galton Laboratory, Department of Genetics,
Evolution, and Environment, University College London, London, WC1E 6BT, UK.

Microbial fitness is easy to measure in the laboratory, but difficult to measure 
in the field. Laboratory fitness assays make use of controlled conditions and
genetically modified organisms, neither of which are available in the field.
Among other applications, fitness assays can help researchers detect adaptation
to different habitats or locations. We designed a competitive fitness assay to
detect adaptation of Saccharomyces paradoxus isolates to the habitat they were
isolated from (oak or larch leaf litter). The assay accurately measures relative 
fitness by tracking genotype frequency changes in the field using digital droplet
PCR (DDPCR). We expected locally adapted S. paradoxus strains to increase in
frequency over time when growing on the leaf litter type from which they were
isolated. The DDPCR assay successfully detected fitness differences among
S. paradoxus strains, but did not find a tendency for strains to be adapted to
the habitat they were isolated from. Instead, we found that the natural alleles
of the hexose transport gene we used to distinguish S. paradoxus strains had
significant effects on fitness. The origin of a strain also affected its fitness:
strains isolated from oak litter were generally fitter than strains from larch
litter. Our results suggest that dispersal limitation and genetic drift shape
S. paradoxus populations in the forest more than local selection does, although
further research is needed to confirm this. Tracking genotype frequency changes
using DDPCR is a practical and accurate microbial fitness assay for natural
environments.

© 2016 The Authors. Molecular Ecology Resources Published by John Wiley & Sons
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1755-0998.12562 
PMID: 27333260 


372. PLoS One. 2016 Jun 22;11(6):e0157214. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0157214.
eCollection 2016.

Osteogenic Differentiation of Three-Dimensional Bioprinted Constructs Consisting 
of Human Adipose-Derived Stem Cells In Vitro and In Vivo.

Wang XF(1), Song Y(1), Liu YS(1), Sun YC(1), Wang YG(1), Wang Y(1), Lyu PJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center of Digital Dentistry, Faculty of Prosthodontics, Peking University
School and Hospital of Stomatology & National Engineering Laboratory for Digital 
and Material Technology of Stomatology & Research Center of Engineering and
Technology for Digital Dentistry of Ministry of Health, Beijing 100081, China.

Here, we aimed to investigate osteogenic differentiation of human adipose-derived
stem cells (hASCs) in three-dimensional (3D) bioprinted tissue constructs in
vitro and in vivo. A 3D Bio-plotter dispensing system was used for building 3D
constructs. Cell viability was determined using live/dead cell staining. After 7 
and 14 days of culture, real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
was performed to analyze the expression of osteogenesis-related genes (RUNX2,
OSX, and OCN). Western blotting for RUNX2 and immunofluorescent staining for OCN 
and RUNX2 were also performed. At 8 weeks after surgery, osteoids secreted by
osteogenically differentiated cells were assessed by hematoxylin-eosin (H&E)
staining, Masson trichrome staining, and OCN immunohistochemical staining.
Results from live/dead cell staining showed that most of the cells remained
alive, with a cell viability of 89%, on day 1 after printing. In vitro osteogenic
induction of the 3D construct showed that the expression levels of RUNX2, OSX,
and OCN were significantly increased on days 7 and 14 after printing in cells
cultured in osteogenic medium (OM) compared with that in normal proliferation
medium (PM). Fluorescence microscopy and western blotting showed that the
expression of osteogenesis-related proteins was significantly higher in cells
cultured in OM than in cells cultured in PM. In vivo studies demonstrated obvious
bone matrix formation in the 3D bioprinted constructs. These results indicated
that 3D bioprinted constructs consisting of hASCs had the ability to promote
mineralized matrix formation and that hASCs could be used in 3D bioprinted
constructs for the repair of large bone tissue defects.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0157214 
PMCID: PMC4917247
PMID: 27332814 


373. Br J Biomed Sci. 2016 Jul;73(3):115-120. Epub 2016 Jun 21.

Comparison of two new generation influenza rapid diagnostic tests with
instrument-based digital readout systems for influenza virus detection.

Ryu SW(1), Lee JH(2), Kim J(3), Jang MA(3), Nam JH(3), Byoun MS(3), Lim CS(3).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Laboratory Medicine, School of Medicine , Kangwon National
University , Chuncheon , Korea. (2)b Department of Laboratory Medicine , Osan
Hankook General Hospital , Osan , Korea. (3)c Department of Laboratory Medicine, 
College of Medicine , Korea University , Seoul , Korea.

INTRODUCTION: Influenza rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) have been developed to
supply scientists with more sensitive and specific techniques. Newly developed
digital reader-based techniques require test evaluations before their clinical
application.
METHODS: Two types of digital influenza RDTs using a digital readout system and
one conventional RDT were compared using 314 nasopharyngeal swabs of influenza.
The swabs originated from symptomatic individuals suspected of influenza
infection, and the presence of influenza was confirmed with influenza real-time
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing and influenza subtyping. Methods were the
Sofia® Influenza A + B Fluorescence Immunoassay (FIA), which uses a portable
fluorescence analyser, the BD Veritor™ System Flu A + B, which uses a
colorimetric immunochromatographic method with a reflectance-based measurement
digital device, and the SD Bioline assay, which is based on a traditional
immunochromatographic method.
RESULTS: The Sofia® Influenza A + B system, the BD Veritor™ System Flu A + B and 
the SD Bioline assay showed sensitivities in relative real-time PCR results of
74.2, 73.0 and 53.9%, respectively, for influenza A, and 82.5, 72.8 and 71.0%,
respectively, for influenza B. All three RDTs showed 100% specificities for
influenza A and influenza B. The Sofia® Influenza A + B Fluorescence Immunoassay 
showed sensitive and specific results for the detection of influenza B in
contrast to the BD Veritor™ System Flu A + B. The two digital RDTs showed higher 
sensitivity and specificity than the conventional RDT in the detection of the
influenza H3 subtype.
CONCLUSIONS: Digital-based readout systems for the detection of the influenza
virus can be applied for more sensitive diagnosis in clinical settings than
conventional RDTs.

DOI: 10.1080/09674845.2016.1189026 
PMID: 27327199  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. J Microbiol Methods. 2016 Aug;127:160-3. doi: 10.1016/j.mimet.2016.06.015. Epub
2016 Jun 14.

Variation in copy number of the 28S rDNA of Aspergillus fumigatus measured by
droplet digital PCR and analog quantitative real-time PCR.

Alanio A(1), Sturny-Leclère A(2), Benabou M(3), Guigue N(4), Bretagne S(5).

Author information: 
(1)Parasitology-Mycology Laboratory, Lariboisière Saint-Louis Fernand Widal
Hospitals, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP), France; Université
Paris-Diderot, Sorbonne Paris Cité, France; Institut Pasteur, Molecular Mycology 
Unit, CNRS URA3012, National Reference Center of Invasive Mycoses and
Antifungals, France. (2)Institut Pasteur, Molecular Mycology Unit, CNRS URA3012, 
National Reference Center of Invasive Mycoses and Antifungals, France.
(3)Institut Pasteur, Human Genetics and Cognitive Functions Unit, Paris, France. 
(4)Parasitology-Mycology Laboratory, Lariboisière Saint-Louis Fernand Widal
Hospitals, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP), France.
(5)Parasitology-Mycology Laboratory, Lariboisière Saint-Louis Fernand Widal
Hospitals, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP), France; Université
Paris-Diderot, Sorbonne Paris Cité, France; Institut Pasteur, Molecular Mycology 
Unit, CNRS URA3012, National Reference Center of Invasive Mycoses and
Antifungals, France. Electronic address: stephane.bretagne@aphp.fr.

Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) after DNA digestion yielded a 28S rDNA copy number of
61 to 86 copies/genome when testing 10 unrelated Aspergillus fumigatus isolates, 
higher than with quantitative PCR. Unfortunately, ddPCR after DNA digestion did
not improve the sensitivity of our PCR assay when testing serum patients with
invasive aspergillosis.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mimet.2016.06.015 
PMID: 27316653 


375. Mol Oncol. 2016 Oct;10(8):1221-31. doi: 10.1016/j.molonc.2016.05.009. Epub 2016
Jun 7.

Droplet digital PCR of circulating tumor cells from colorectal cancer patients
can predict KRAS mutations before surgery.

Denis JA(1), Patroni A(2), Guillerm E(3), Pépin D(4), Benali-Furet N(5), Wechsler
J(5), Manceau G(6), Bernard M(4), Coulet F(3), Larsen AK(7), Karoui M(6), Lacorte
JM(8).

Author information: 
(1)Sorbonne Universités, UPMC Univ. Paris 06, F-75005, Paris, France; Assistance 
Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Department of Oncology
and Endocrine Biochemistry, Paris, France; Cancer Biology and Therapeutics,
Centre de Recherche Saint-Antoine, Institut National de la Santé et de la
Recherche Médicale (INSERM) U938, Institut Universitaire de Cancérologie (IUC),
Université Pierre et Marie Curie (UPMC), Sorbonne Universities, Paris, France.
Electronic address: jerome.denis@aphp.fr. (2)Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de
Paris, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Department of Digestive and
Hepato-Pancreato-Biliary Surgery, Paris, France. (3)Sorbonne Universités, UPMC
Univ. Paris 06, F-75005, Paris, France; Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris,
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Department of Oncogenetics and Molecular
Angiogenetics, Paris, France. (4)Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris,
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Department of Oncology and Endocrine Biochemistry,
Paris, France. (5)ScreenCell SA, Sarcelles, France. (6)Sorbonne Universités, UPMC
Univ. Paris 06, F-75005, Paris, France; Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris,
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Department of Digestive and Hepato-Pancreato-Biliary 
Surgery, Paris, France. (7)Cancer Biology and Therapeutics, Centre de Recherche
Saint-Antoine, Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale (INSERM)
U938, Institut Universitaire de Cancérologie (IUC), Université Pierre et Marie
Curie (UPMC), Sorbonne Universities, Paris, France. (8)Sorbonne Universités, UPMC
Univ. Paris 06, F-75005, Paris, France; Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris,
Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Department of Oncology and Endocrine Biochemistry,
Paris, France; INSERM, UMR_S 1166, Institute of Cardiometabolism and Nutrition,
ICAN, Paris, France.

In colorectal cancer (CRC), KRAS mutations are a strong negative predictor for
treatment with the EGFR-targeted antibodies cetuximab and panitumumab. Since it
can be difficult to obtain appropriate tumor tissues for KRAS genotyping,
alternative methods are required. Circulating tumor cells (CTCs) are believed to 
be representative of the tumor in real time. In this study we explored the
capacity of a size-based device for capturing CTCs coupled with a multiplex KRAS 
screening assay using droplet digital PCR (ddPCR). We showed that it is possible 
to detect a mutant ratio of 0.05% and less than one KRAS mutant cell per mL total
blood with ddPCR compared to about 0.5% and 50-75 cells for TaqMeltPCR and HRM.
Next, CTCs were isolated from the blood of 35 patients with CRC at various stage 
of the disease. KRAS genotyping was successful for 86% (30/35) of samples with a 
KRAS codon 12/13 mutant ratio of 57% (17/30). In contrast, only one patient was
identified as KRAS mutant when size-based isolation was combined with HRM or
TaqMeltPCR. KRAS status was then determined for the 26 available formalin-fixed
paraffin-embedded tumors using standard procedures. The concordance between the
CTCs and the corresponding tumor tissues was 77% with a sensitivity of 83%. Taken
together, the data presented here suggest that is feasible to detect KRAS
mutations in CTCs from blood samples of CRC patients which are predictive for
those found in the tumor. The minimal invasive nature of this procedure in
combination with the high sensitivity of ddPCR might provide in the future an
opportunity to monitor patients throughout the course of disease on multiple
levels including early detection, prognosis, treatment and relapse as well as to 
obtain mechanistic insight with respect to tumor invasion and metastasis.

Copyright © 2016 Federation of European Biochemical Societies. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molonc.2016.05.009 
PMID: 27311775 


376. Biosci Biotechnol Biochem. 2016 Jun 16:1-6. [Epub ahead of print]

Comparison of droplet digital PCR to real-time PCR for quantification of
hepatitis B virus DNA.

Tang H(1), Cai Q(1), Li H(1), Hu P(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology for Infectious Diseases (Ministry of
Education), Department of Infectious Diseases , Institute for Viral Hepatitis,
The Second Affiliated Hospital, Chongqing Medical University , Chongqing , P.R.
China.

Quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) has been widely implemented for clinical
hepatitis B viral load testing, but a lack of standardization and relatively poor
precision hinder its usefulness. Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) is a promising tool 
that offers high precision and direct quantification. In this study, we compared 
the ddPCR QX100 platform by Bio-Rad with the CFX384 Touch Real-Time PCR Detection
System (Bio-Rad, USA) to detect serial plasmid DNA dilutions of known
concentrations as well as HBV DNA extracted from patient serum samples. Both
methods showed a high degree of linearity and quantitative correlation. However, 
ddPCR assays generated more reproducible results and detected lower copy numbers 
than qPCR assays. Patient sample quantifications by ddPCR and qPCR were highly
agreeable based on the Bland-Altman analysis. Collectively, our findings
demonstrate that ddPCR offers improved analytical sensitivity and specificity for
HBV measurements and is suitable for clinical HBV detection.

DOI: 10.1080/09168451.2016.1196576 
PMID: 27310131 


377. Transfusion. 2016 Sep;56(9):2248-55. doi: 10.1111/trf.13692. Epub 2016 Jun 16.

Viral nucleic acids in human plasma pools.

Zhang W(1,)(2,)(3), Li L(1,)(3), Deng X(1,)(3), Blümel J(4), Nübling CM(4),
Hunfeld A(4), Baylis SA(4), Delwart E(5,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Blood Systems Research Institute, San Francisco, California. (2)Department of 
Microbiology, School of Medicine, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang, Jiangsu, China. 
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of California at San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. (4)Paul-Ehrlich-Institut, Langen, Germany. (5)Blood
Systems Research Institute, San Francisco, California.
delwarte@medicine.ucsf.edu. (6)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of
California at San Francisco, San Francisco, California.
delwarte@medicine.ucsf.edu.

BACKGROUND: The identification of viruses in human blood is required for
epidemiologic surveillance and to detect potentially emerging threats to blood
transfusion safety.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: Viral nucleic acids in plasma fractionation pools
assembled from blood donors in the United States and Europe were analyzed by
viral metagenomics.
RESULTS: Anelloviruses were detected in each of the 10 plasma pools. Human
pegivirus A (HPgV; GB virus type C) sequences were identified in eight of the 10 
pools, more than 90% of which belong to Genotype 2. The recently described human 
HPgV2 in Flaviviridae was not detected. A small number of sequence reads of human
papillomavirus were also detected in three pools. In one pool, two different
gemycircularvirus genomes were identified and fully sequenced. The capsid protein
of one gemycircularvirus shared 83% to 84% identity to those of genomes from
human serum and sewage. The presence of the gemycircularvirus genomes in the
plasma pool was independently confirmed and the viral concentration estimated by 
digital PCR at more than 10(6) copies/mL assuming their origin from single
donors.
CONCLUSION: Further research is required to elucidate whether gemycircularviruses
can infect humans or are indicative of contamination occurring during phlebotomy,
plasma pool processing, or ongoing donor fungal infections.

© 2016 AABB.

DOI: 10.1111/trf.13692 
PMID: 27306718 


378. Langmuir. 2016 Jul 12;32(27):6860-70. doi: 10.1021/acs.langmuir.6b01782. Epub
2016 Jun 29.

New Drop Fluidics Enabled by Magnetic-Field-Mediated Elastocapillary
Transduction.

Biswas S(1), Pomeau Y(2), Chaudhury MK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Lehigh University ,
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania 18015, United States. (2)University of Arizona ,
Department of Mathematics, Tucson, Arizona 85721, United States.

This research introduces a new drop fluidics that uses a deformable and
stretchable elastomeric film as the platform instead of the commonly used rigid
supports. Such a soft film impregnated with magnetic particles can be modulated
with an external electromagnetic field that produces a vast array of
topographical landscapes with varying surface curvature, which, in conjunction
with capillarity, can direct and control the motion of water droplets efficiently
and accurately. When a thin layer of oil is present on this film that is deformed
locally, a centrosymmetric wedge is formed. A water droplet placed on this
oil-laden film becomes asymmetrically deformed, thus producing a gradient of
Laplace pressure within the droplet and setting it in motion. A simple theory is 
presented that accounts for the droplet speed in terms of such geometric
variables as the volume of the droplet and the thickness of the oil film covering
the soft elastomeric film as well as material variables such as the viscosity of 
the oil and the interfacial tension of the oil-water interfaces. Following the
verification of the theoretical result using well-controlled model systems, we
demonstrate how the electromagnetically controlled elastocapillary force can be
used to manipulate the motion of single and/or multiple droplets on the surface
of the elastomeric film and how elementary operations such as drop fusion and
thermally addressed chemical transformation can be carried out in aqueous
droplets. It is expected that the resulting drop fluidics would be suitable for
the digital control of drop motion by simply switching on and off the
electromagnetic fields applied at different positions underneath the elastomeric 
film in a Boolean sequence. We anticipate that this method of directing and
manipulating water droplets is poised for application in various biochemical
reaction engineering situations, an example of which is the polymerase chain
reaction (PCR).

DOI: 10.1021/acs.langmuir.6b01782 
PMID: 27300489 


379. World J Gastroenterol. 2016 Jun 14;22(22):5154-64. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v22.i22.5154.

Structural and molecular features of intestinal strictures in rats with
Crohn's-like disease.

Talapka P(1), Berkó A(1), Nagy LI(1), Chandrakumar L(1), Bagyánszki M(1), Puskás 
LG(1), Fekete É(1), Bódi N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Petra Talapka, Anikó Berkó, Lalitha Chandrakumar, Mária Bagyánszki, Éva
Fekete, Nikolett Bódi, Department of Physiology, Anatomy and Neuroscience,
Faculty of Sciences and Informatics, University of Szeged, H-6726 Szeged,
Hungary.

AIM: To develop a new rat model we wanted to gain a better understanding of
stricture formation in Crohn's disease (CD).
METHODS: Chronic colitis was induced locally by the administration of
2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS). The relapsing inflammation
characteristic to CD was mimicked by repeated TNBS treatments. Animals were
randomly divided into control, once, twice and three times TNBS-treated groups.
Control animals received an enema of saline. Tissue samples were taken from the
strictured colonic segments and also adjacent proximally and distally to its 60, 
90 or 120 d after the last TNBS or saline administrations. The frequency and
macroscopic extent of the strictures were measured on digital photographs. The
structural features of strictured gut wall were studied by light- and electron
microscopy. Inflammation related alterations in TGF-beta 2 and 3, matrix
metalloproteinases 9 (MMP9) and TIMP1 mRNA and protein expression were determined
by quantitative real-time PCR and western blot analysis. The quantitative
distribution of caspase 9 was determined by post-embedding immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: Intestinal strictures first appeared 60 d after TNBS treatments and the 
frequency of them increased up to day 120. From day 90 an intact lamina
epithelialis, reversible thickening of lamina muscularis mucosae and irreversible
thickening of the muscularis externa were demonstrated in the strictured colonic 
segments. Nevertheless the morphological signs of apoptosis were frequently seen 
and excess extracellular matrix deposition was recorded between smooth muscle
cells (SMCs). Enhanced caspase 9 expression on day 90 in the SMCs and on day 120 
also in myenteric neurons indicated the induction of apoptosis. The mRNA
expression profile of TGF-betas after repeated TNBS doses was characteristic to
CD, TGF-beta 2, but not TGF-beta 3 was up-regulated. Overexpression of MMP9 and
down-regulation of TIMP1 were demonstrated. The progressive increase in the
amount of MMP9 protein in the strictures was also obvious between days 90 and 120
but TIMP1 protein was practically undetectable at this time.
CONCLUSION: These findings indicate that aligned structural and molecular changes
in the gut wall rather than neuronal cell death play the primary role in
stricture formation.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v22.i22.5154 
PMCID: PMC4893462
PMID: 27298558 


380. BMC Genomics. 2016 Jun 13;17:458. doi: 10.1186/s12864-016-2757-4.

Quantitation of next generation sequencing library preparation protocol
efficiencies using droplet digital PCR assays - a systematic comparison of DNA
library preparation kits for Illumina sequencing.

Aigrain L(1), Gu Y(2), Quail MA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Campus, Hinxton, Cambs, CB10
1SA, UK. la8@sanger.ac.uk. (2)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust
Campus, Hinxton, Cambs, CB10 1SA, UK.

BACKGROUND: The emergence of next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies in the
past decade has allowed the democratization of DNA sequencing both in terms of
price per sequenced bases and ease to produce DNA libraries. When it comes to
preparing DNA sequencing libraries for Illumina, the current market leader, a
plethora of kits are available and it can be difficult for the users to determine
which kit is the most appropriate and efficient for their applications; the main 
concerns being not only cost but also minimal bias, yield and time efficiency.
RESULTS: We compared 9 commercially available library preparation kits in a
systematic manner using the same DNA sample by probing the amount of DNA
remaining after each protocol steps using a new droplet digital PCR (ddPCR)
assay. This method allows the precise quantification of fragments bearing either 
adaptors or P5/P7 sequences on both ends just after ligation or PCR enrichment.
We also investigated the potential influence of DNA input and DNA fragment size
on the final library preparation efficiency. The overall library preparations
efficiencies of the libraries show important variations between the different
kits with the ones combining several steps into a single one exhibiting some
final yields 4 to 7 times higher than the other kits. Detailed ddPCR data also
reveal that the adaptor ligation yield itself varies by more than a factor of 10 
between kits, certain ligation efficiencies being so low that it could impair the
original library complexity and impoverish the sequencing results. When a PCR
enrichment step is necessary, lower adaptor-ligated DNA inputs leads to greater
amplification yields, hiding the latent disparity between kits.
CONCLUSION: We describe a ddPCR assay that allows us to probe the efficiency of
the most critical step in the library preparation, ligation, and to draw
conclusion on which kits is more likely to preserve the sample heterogeneity and 
reduce the need of amplification.

DOI: 10.1186/s12864-016-2757-4 
PMCID: PMC4906846
PMID: 27297323 


381. J Neurosurg. 2016 Jun 10:1-13. doi: 10.3171/2016.4.JNS16409. [Epub ahead of
print]

Associations of renin-angiotensin system genetic polymorphisms and clinical
course after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.

Griessenauer CJ(1,)(2,)(3), Tubbs RS(2), Foreman PM(3), Chua MH(4), Vyas NA(5),
Lipsky RH(5,)(6), Lin M(6), Iyer R(7), Haridas R(7), Walters BC(3,)(5), Chaudry
S(6), Malieva A(6), Wilkins S(6), Harrigan MR(3), Fisher WS 3rd(3), Shoja MM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School. (2)Children's of
Alabama. (3)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Alabama at Birmingham,
Alabama. (4)Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts. (5)Department of
Neurosciences and. (6)Department of Molecular Neuroscience, George Mason
University, Fairfax, Virginia. (7)Inova Translational Medicine Institute, Inova
Health System, Falls Church; and.

OBJECTIVE Renin-angiotensin system (RAS) genetic polymorphisms are thought to
play a role in cerebral aneurysm formation and rupture. The Cerebral Aneurysm
Renin Angiotensin System (CARAS) study prospectively evaluated associations of
common RAS polymorphisms and clinical course after aneurysmal subarachnoid
hemorrhage (aSAH). METHODS The CARAS study prospectively enrolled aSAH patients
at 2 academic centers in the United States. A blood sample was obtained from all 
patients for genetic evaluation and measurement of plasma angiotensin converting 
enzyme (ACE) concentration. Common RAS polymorphisms were detected using
5'exonuclease genotyping assays and pyrosequencing. Analysis of associations of
RAS polymorphisms and clinical course after aSAH were performed. RESULTS A total 
of 166 patients were screened, and 149 aSAH patients were included for analysis. 
A recessive effect of allele I (insertion) of the ACE I/D (insertion/deletion)
polymorphism was identified for Hunt and Hess grade in all patients (OR 2.76, 95%
CI 1.17-6.50; p = 0.0206) with subsequent poor functional outcome. There was a
similar effect on delayed cerebral ischemia (DCI) in patients 55 years or younger
(OR 3.63, 95% CI 1.04-12.7; p = 0.0439). In patients older than 55 years, there
was a recessive effect of allele A of the angiotensin II receptor Type 2 (AT2)
A/C single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) on DCI (OR 4.70, 95% CI 1.43-15.4; p =
0.0111). CONCLUSIONS Both the ACE I/D polymorphism and the AT2 A/C single
nucleotide polymorphism were associated with an age-dependent risk of delayed
cerebral ischemia, whereas only the ACE I/D polymorphism was associated with poor
clinical grade at presentation. Further studies are required to elucidate the
relevant pathophysiology and its potential implication in the treatment of
patients with aSAH.

DOI: 10.3171/2016.4.JNS16409 
PMID: 27285537 


382. Clin Cancer Res. 2016 Sep 1;22(17):4356-65. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-3028.
Epub 2016 Jun 9.

Genomic EWSR1 Fusion Sequence as Highly Sensitive and Dynamic Plasma Tumor Marker
in Ewing Sarcoma.

Krumbholz M(1), Hellberg J(2), Steif B(2), Bäuerle T(3), Gillmann C(3), Fritscher
T(4), Agaimy A(5), Frey B(6), Juengert J(2), Wardelmann E(7), Hartmann W(7),
Juergens H(8), Dirksen U(8), Metzler M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, University Hospital
Erlangen, Erlangen, Germany. Manuela.Krumbholz@uk-erlangen.de. (2)Department of
Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, University Hospital Erlangen, Erlangen,
Germany. (3)Department of Radiology, University Hospital Erlangen, Erlangen,
Germany. (4)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University Hospital Erlangen,
Erlangen, Germany. (5)Department of Pathology, University Hospital Erlangen,
Erlangen, Germany. (6)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Hospital
Erlangen, Erlangen, Germany. (7)Department of Pathology, University Hospital
Muenster, Muenster, Germany. (8)Cooperative Ewing Sarcoma Study Group, Department
of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, University Hospital Muenster, Muenster,
Germany.

Erratum in
    Clin Cancer Res. 2017 Jan 15;23 (2):610.

PURPOSE: The application of the tumor-specific genomic fusion sequence as
noninvasive biomarker for therapy monitoring in Ewing sarcoma (EwS) has been
evaluated.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: EwS xenograft mouse models were used to explore
detectability in small plasma volumes and correlation of genomic EWSR1-FLI1 copy 
numbers with tumor burden. Furthermore, 234 blood samples from 20 EwS patients
were analyzed before and during multimodal treatment. EWSR1 fusion sequence
levels in patients' plasma were quantified using droplet digital PCR and compared
with tumor volumes calculated from MRI or CT imaging studies.
RESULTS: Kinetics of EWSR1 fusion sequence copy numbers in the plasma are
correlated with changes of the tumor volume in patients with localized and
metastatic disease. The majority of patients showed a fast reduction of cell-free
tumor DNA (ctDNA) during initial chemotherapy. Recurrence of increasing ctDNA
levels signalized relapse development.
CONCLUSIONS: Genomic fusion sequences represent promising noninvasive biomarkers 
for improved therapy monitoring in EwS. Until now, response assessment is largely
based on MRI and CT imaging, implying restrictions on closely repeated
performance and limitations on the differentiation between vital tumor and
reactive stromal tissue. Particularly in patients with prognostic unfavorable
disseminated disease, ctDNA is a valuable addition for the assessment of therapy 
response. Clin Cancer Res; 22(17); 4356-65. ©2016 AACR.

©2016 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-3028 
PMID: 27283964 


383. Clin Cancer Res. 2016 Dec 15;22(24):6010-6020. Epub 2016 Jun 8.

A Prospective Evaluation of Circulating Tumor Cells and Cell-Free DNA in
EGFR-Mutant Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Patients Treated with Erlotinib on a Phase
II Trial.

Yanagita M(1,)(2), Redig AJ(1,)(2,)(3), Paweletz CP(1,)(4), Dahlberg SE(5,)(6),
O'Connell A(5), Feeney N(5), Taibi M(1), Boucher D(7), Oxnard GR(1,)(2,)(3),
Johnson BE(1,)(2,)(3), Costa DB(2,)(7), Jackman DM(1,)(2,)(3), Jänne
PA(8,)(2,)(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts. (2)Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts. (3)Department of
Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts. (4)Belfer Center
for Applied Cancer Sciences, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts.
(5)Department of Biostatistics and Computational Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute, Boston, Massachusetts. (6)Department of Biostatistics, Harvard T.H.
Chan School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts. (7)Department of Medicine,
Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts. (8)Department of
Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts.
Pasi_Janne@dfci.harvard.edu.

PURPOSE: Genotype-directed therapy is the standard of care for advanced non-small
cell lung cancer (NSCLC), but obtaining tumor tissue for genotyping remains a
challenge. Circulating tumor cell (CTC) or cell-free DNA (cfDNA) analysis may
allow for noninvasive evaluation. This prospective trial evaluated CTCs and cfDNA
in EGFR-mutant NSCLC patients treated with erlotinib until progression.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: EGFR-mutant NSCLC patients were enrolled in a phase II trial
of erlotinib. Blood was collected at baseline, every 2 months on study, and at
disease progression. Plasma genotyping was performed by droplet digital PCR for
EGFR19del, L858R, and T790M. CTCs were isolated by CellSave, enumerated, and
analyzed by immunofluorescence for CD45 and pan-cytokeratin and EGFR and MET FISH
were also performed. Rebiopsy was performed at disease progression.
RESULTS: Sixty patients were enrolled; 44 patients discontinued therapy for
disease progression. Rebiopsy occurred in 35 of 44 patients (80%), with paired
CTC/cfDNA analysis in 41 of 44 samples at baseline and 36 of 44 samples at
progression. T790M was identified in 23 of 35 (66%) tissue biopsies and 9 of 39
(23%) cfDNA samples. CTC analysis at progression identified MET amplification in 
3 samples in which tissue analysis could not be performed. cfDNA analysis
identified T790M in 2 samples in which rebiopsy was not possible. At diagnosis,
high levels of cfDNA but not high levels of CTCs correlated with progression-free
survival.
CONCLUSIONS: cfDNA and CTCs are complementary, noninvasive assays for evaluation 
of acquired resistance to first-line EGFR TKIs and may expand the number of
patients in whom actionable genetic information can be obtained at acquired
resistance. Serial cfDNA monitoring may offer greater clinical utility than
serial monitoring of CTCs. Clin Cancer Res; 22(24); 6010-20. ©2016 AACR.

©2016 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-0909 
PMID: 27281561 


384. Eur J Hum Genet. 2016 Nov;24(11):1644-1648. doi: 10.1038/ejhg.2016.56. Epub 2016 
Jun 8.

Digital PCR for discriminating mosaic deletions and for determining proportion of
tumor cells in specimen.

Kluwe L(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg,
Germany. (2)Department of Maxillofacial Surgery, University Medical Center
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.

Mosaicism, presence of a genetic feature in only a subpopulation of cells, is
frequent in de novo genetic diseases. Among large deletions covering the NF1
tumor suppressor gene, the frequency of mosaicism can be as high as 40% in de
novo patients. In this study, we demonstrate the high potential of digital PCR in
detecting large NF1 deletions and in discriminating mosaic cases. By
simultaneously assessing the NF1 gene and a reference gene RPP30, deletions could
be unambiguously distinguished from non-deletion samples. Performing the same
assay for mixed samples from a DNA with a deletion and a non-deletion DNA, a
highly significant linear relation was obtained between the set-up ratio of the
two samples and the measured ratio of NF1/RPP30 (P<0.0001), suggesting the high
potential of digital PCR in discriminating mosaic deletions. Furthermore, digital
PCR detects NF1 allele loss in a tumor specimen that was not detected by loss of 
heterozygosity analysis using polymorphic markers due to high content of
non-tumor cells. Based on the measured ratio of NF1/RPP30, the proportion of the 
tumor cells in this specimen could be calculated as 25%. Our results demonstrate 
that dual-probe digital PCR is a simple and effective method for detecting
deletions and for discriminating mosaic deletions. Furthermore, this method is
sensitive for assigning somatic allele loss in tumor specimen and enables
determining proportion of tumor cells.

DOI: 10.1038/ejhg.2016.56 
PMCID: PMC5110055 [Available on 2017-11-01]
PMID: 27273132 


385. Oncotarget. 2016 Jul 12;7(28):43412-43418. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.9727.

Cell-free DNA mutations as biomarkers in breast cancer patients receiving
tamoxifen.

Jansen MP(1), Martens JW(1), Helmijr JC(1), Beaufort CM(1), van Marion R(2), Krol
NM(2,)(3), Monkhorst K(2), Trapman-Jansen AM(1), Meijer-van Gelder ME(1), Weerts 
MJ(1), Ramirez-Ardila DE(1), Dubbink HJ(2), Foekens JA(1), Sleijfer S(1), Berns
EM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology and Cancer Genomics, Erasmus MC Cancer
Institute, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. (2)Department of Pathology, Erasmus MC
Cancer Institute, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. (3)Cancer Computational Biology
Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

The aim was to identify mutations in serum cell-free DNA (cfDNA) associated with 
disease progression on tamoxifen treatment in metastatic breast cancer (MBC).
Sera available at start of therapy, during therapy and at disease progression
were selected from 10 estrogen receptor (ER)-positive breast cancer patients. DNA
from primary tumor and normal tissue and cfDNA from minute amounts of sera were
analyzed by targeted next generation sequencing (NGS) of 45 genes (1,242 exons). 
At disease progression, stop-gain single nucleotide variants (SNVs) for CREBBP (1
patient) and SMAD4 (1 patient) and non-synonymous SNVs for AKAP9 (1 patient),
PIK3CA (2 patients) and TP53 (2 patients) were found. Mutations in CREBBP and
SMAD4 have only been occasionally reported in breast cancer. All mutations,
except for AKAP9, were also present in the primary tumor but not detected in all 
blood specimens preceding progression. More sensitive detection by deeper
re-sequencing and digital PCR confirmed the occurrence of circulating tumor DNA
(ctDNA) and these biomarkers in blood specimens.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.9727 
PMCID: PMC5190033
PMID: 27270325 

Conflict of interest statement: None of the authors has a conflict of interest.


386. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2016 Aug 5;476(4):501-7. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2016.05.153. Epub 2016 Jun 2.

A selective splicing variant of hepcidin mRNA in hepatocellular carcinoma cell
lines.

Toki Y(1), Sasaki K(2), Tanaka H(3), Yamamoto M(1), Hatayama M(1), Ito S(1),
Ikuta K(1), Shindo M(1), Hasebe T(1), Nakajima S(1), Sawada K(1), Fujiya M(1),
Torimoto Y(4), Ohtake T(5), Kohgo Y(5).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine, 
Asahikawa Medical University, Hokkaido 078-8510, Japan. (2)Department of
Gastrointestinal Immunology and Regenerative Medicine, Asahikawa Medical
University, Hokkaido 078-8510, Japan. Electronic address:
k-sasaki@asahikawa-med.ac.jp. (3)Department of Legal Medicine, Asahikawa Medical 
University, Hokkaido 078-8510, Japan. (4)Oncology Center, Asahikawa Medical
University Hospital, Hokkaido 078-8510, Japan. (5)Department of Gastroenterology,
International University of Health and Welfare Hospital, Tochigi 329-2763, Japan.

Hepcidin is a main regulator of iron metabolism, of which abnormal expression
affects intestinal absorption and reticuloendothelial sequestration of iron by
interacting with ferroportin. It is also noted that abnormal iron accumulation is
one of the key factors to facilitate promotion and progression of cancer
including hepatoma. By RT-PCR/agarose gel electrophoresis of hepcidin mRNA in a
hepatocellular carcinoma cell line HLF, a smaller mRNA band was shown in addition
to the wild-type hepcidin mRNA. From sequencing analysis, this additional band
was a selective splicing variant of hepcidin mRNA lacking exon 2 of HAMP gene,
producing the transcript that encodes truncated peptide lacking 20 amino acids at
the middle of preprohepcidin. In the present study, we used the digital PCR,
because such a small amount of variant mRNA was difficult to quantitate by the
conventional RT-PCR amplification. Among seven hepatoma-derived cell lines, six
cell lines have significant copy numbers of this variant mRNA, but not in one
cell line. In the transient transfection analysis of variant-type hepcidin cDNA, 
truncated preprohepcidin has a different character comparing with native
preprohepcidin: its product is insensitive to digestion, and secreted into the
medium as a whole preprohepcidin form without maturation. Loss or reduction of
function of HAMP gene by aberrantly splicing may be a suitable phenomenon to
obtain the proliferating advantage of hepatoma cells.

Copyright © 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2016.05.153 
PMID: 27264950 


387. Neurobiol Dis. 2016 Oct;94:10-7. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2016.05.019. Epub 2016 May
31.

Mitochondrial DNA in CSF distinguishes LRRK2 from idiopathic Parkinson's disease.

Podlesniy P(1), Vilas D(2), Taylor P(3), Shaw LM(4), Tolosa E(5), Trullas R(6).

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology Unit, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques de Barcelona, Consejo
Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC), Spain; Centro de Investigación
Biomédica en Red sobre Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), Barcelona,
Spain. (2)Neurology Service, Parkinson's Disease and Movement Disorders Unit,
Institut Clínic de Neurociències, Hospital Clínic de Barcelona, University of
Barcelona, Spain. (3)BioLegend, Inc., Dedham, MA, USA. (4)Department of Pathology
and Laboratory Medicine, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, PA, USA. (5)Neurology Service, Parkinson's Disease and Movement
Disorders Unit, Institut Clínic de Neurociències, Hospital Clínic de Barcelona,
University of Barcelona, Spain; Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i
Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Barcelona, Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red
sobre Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Neurobiology Unit, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques de Barcelona, Consejo
Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC), Spain; Institut d'Investigacions 
Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Barcelona, Spain; Centro de
Investigación Biomédica en Red sobre Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), 
Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: ramon.trullas@iibb.csic.es.

Mitochondrial DNA regulates mitochondrial function which is altered in both
idiopathic and familial forms of Parkinson's disease. To investigate whether
these two disease forms exhibit an altered regulation of mitochondrial DNA we
measured cell free mitochondrial DNA content in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from
idiopathic and LRRK2-related Parkinson's disease patients. The concentration of
mitochondrial DNA was measured using a digital droplet polymerase chain reaction 
technique in a total of 98 CSF samples from a cohort of subjects including: 20
LRRK2(G2019S) mutation carriers with Parkinson's disease, 26 asymptomatic
LRRK2(G2019S) mutation carriers, 31 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease 
and 21 first-degree relatives of LRRK2 Parkinson's disease patients without the
mutation. Here we report that LRRK2(G2019S) mutation carriers with Parkinson's
disease exhibit a high concentration of mitochondrial DNA in CSF compared with
asymptomatic LRRK2(G2019S) mutation carriers and with idiopathic Parkinson's
disease patients. In addition, idiopathic, but not LRRK2 Parkinson's disease is
associated with low CSF concentration of α-synuclein. These results show that
high mitochondrial DNA content in CSF distinguishes idiopathic from LRRK2-related
Parkinson's disease suggesting that different biochemical pathways underlie
neurodegeneration in these two disorders.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2016.05.019 
PMID: 27260835 


388. Anaerobe. 2016 Aug;40:100-2. doi: 10.1016/j.anaerobe.2016.05.013. Epub 2016 May
31.

Identification and characterization of Dichelobacter nodosus serogroup H from
ovine footrot in India.

Vinod Kumar N(1), Sreenivasulu D(2), Karthik A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Microbiology, College of Veterinary Science,
Tirupati, AP, India. Electronic address: nagaram_vinod@yahoo.com. (2)College of
Veterinary Science, Tirupati, 517 502, AP, India. Electronic address:
dsreenivasulu10@gmail.com. (3)Department of Veterinary Microbiology, College of
Veterinary Science, Tirupati, AP, India. Electronic address: akmicro7@gmail.com.

A total of 56 foot swabs were collected from inter digital spaces of sheep with
footrot lesions were screened for 16 rRNA of Dichelobacter nodosus by PCR. Out of
the 56 samples, 38(67.85%) were found to be positive. All the positive samples
were subjected to multiplex PCR targeting fimA gene for identification of
serogroups of D. nodosus. Serogroup H was found along with serogroup B in 12
(55.26%) samples and with serogroup I in 8 (22.2%) samples. The serogroup H was
identified for the first time from the Indian subcontinent. The phylogenetic
analysis of the present sequence with the available serogroup H sequences of
GenBank revealed to be in close association with the serotype H1.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anaerobe.2016.05.013 
PMID: 27259362  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Clin Chem. 2016 Aug;62(8):1129-39. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2015.253609. Epub 2016
Jun 1.

A Study of Hypermethylated Circulating Tumor DNA as a Universal Colorectal Cancer
Biomarker.

Garrigou S(1), Perkins G(2), Garlan F(1), Normand C(1), Didelot A(1), Le Corre
D(1), Peyvandi S(3), Mulot C(4), Niarra R(5), Aucouturier P(5), Chatellier G(5), 
Nizard P(1), Perez-Toralla K(1), Zonta E(1), Charpy C(3), Pujals A(6), Barau
C(7), Bouché O(8), Emile JF(9), Pezet D(10), Bibeau F(11), Hutchison JB(12), Link
DR(12), Zaanan A(2), Laurent-Puig P(13), Sobhani I(14), Taly V(15).

Author information: 
(1)Université Paris Sorbonne Cité, INSERM UMR-S1147, CNRS SNC5014, Centre
Universitaire des Saints-Pères, Paris Cedex 06, France. Equipe labélisée Ligue
contre le cancer; (2)Université Paris Sorbonne Cité, INSERM UMR-S1147, CNRS
SNC5014, Centre Universitaire des Saints-Pères, Paris Cedex 06, France. Equipe
labélisée Ligue contre le cancer; Department of Digestive Oncology, AP-HP,
European Georges Pompidou Hospital, Paris Descartes University, Paris, France;
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, Henri-Mondor Hospital-APHP and EA 7375-EC2M3
Laboratory, University of Paris Est Creteil Val de Marne, Creteil, France;
(4)Université Paris Sorbonne Cité, INSERM UMR-S1147, CNRS SNC5014, Centre
Universitaire des Saints-Pères, Paris Cedex 06, France. Equipe labélisée Ligue
contre le cancer; CRB Epigenetec, INSERM UMR-S1147, Centre Universitaire des
Saints-Pères, Paris Cedex 06, France; (5)CIC-EC4 URC HEGP, AP-HP, Hôpitaux
Universitaires Paris Ouest, Paris, France; (6)INSERM U955, University of Paris
Est Creteil Val de Marne and Department of Pathology, AP-HP, Henri-Mondor
Hospital, Créteil, France; (7)CRB, AP-HP, Henri-Mondor Hospital, Créteil, France;
(8)Service d'hépatogastroentérologie et de cancérologie digestive, CHU de Reims, 
Hôpital Robert-Debré, Reims Cedex, France; (9)Department of Pathology, Hôpital
Ambroise Paré, AP-HP, Université de Versailles St Quentin en Yvelines,
Boulogne-Billancourt, France; (10)CHU Clermont Ferrand, Clermont Ferrand Cedex 1,
France; (11)Service d'Anatomo-Pathologie, Centre Val d'Aurelle Paul-Lamarque,
Montpellier, France; (12)RainDance Technologies, Billerica, MA; (13)Université
Paris Sorbonne Cité, INSERM UMR-S1147, CNRS SNC5014, Centre Universitaire des
Saints-Pères, Paris Cedex 06, France. Equipe labélisée Ligue contre le cancer;
Department of Biology, European Georges Pompidou Hospital, AP-HP, Paris Descartes
University, Paris, France. valerie.taly@parisdescartes.fr
pierre.laurent-puig@parisdescartes.fr iradj.sobhani@hmn.aphp.fr. (14)Department
of Gastroenterology, Henri-Mondor Hospital-APHP and EA 7375-EC2M3 Laboratory,
University of Paris Est Creteil Val de Marne, Creteil, France;
valerie.taly@parisdescartes.fr pierre.laurent-puig@parisdescartes.fr
iradj.sobhani@hmn.aphp.fr. (15)Université Paris Sorbonne Cité, INSERM UMR-S1147, 
CNRS SNC5014, Centre Universitaire des Saints-Pères, Paris Cedex 06, France.
Equipe labélisée Ligue contre le cancer; valerie.taly@parisdescartes.fr
pierre.laurent-puig@parisdescartes.fr iradj.sobhani@hmn.aphp.fr.

BACKGROUND: Circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) has emerged as a good candidate for
tracking tumor dynamics in different cancer types, potentially avoiding repeated 
tumor biopsies. Many different genes can be mutated within a tumor, complicating 
procedures for tumor monitoring, even with highly sensitive next-generation
sequencing (NGS) strategies. Droplet-based digital PCR (dPCR) is a highly
sensitive and quantitative procedure, allowing detection of very low amounts of
circulating tumor genetic material, but can be limited in the total number of
target loci monitored.
METHODS: We analyzed hypermethylation of 3 genes, by use of droplet-based dPCR in
different stages of colorectal cancer (CRC), to identify universal markers for
tumor follow-up.
RESULTS: Hypermethylation of WIF1 (WNT inhibitory factor 1) and NPY (neuropeptide
Y) genes was significantly higher in tumor tissue compared to normal tissue,
independently of tumor stage. All tumor tissues appeared positive for one of the 
2 markers. Methylated ctDNA (MetctDNA) was detected in 80% of metastatic CRC and 
45% of localized CRC. For samples with detectable mutations in ctDNA, MetctDNA
and mutant ctDNA (MutctDNA) fractions were correlated. During follow-up of
different stage CRC patients, MetctDNA changes allowed monitoring of tumor
evolution.
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that MetctDNA could be used as a universal
surrogate marker for tumor follow-up in CRC patients, and monitoring MetctDNA by 
droplet-based dPCR could avoid the need for monitoring mutations.

© 2016 American Association for Clinical Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2015.253609 
PMID: 27251038 


390. Cold Spring Harb Protoc. 2016 Aug 1;2016(8):pdb.prot086801. doi:
10.1101/pdb.prot086801.

Using Digital Polymerase Chain Reaction to Detect Single-Nucleotide Substitutions
Induced by Genome Editing.

Miyaoka Y(1), Chan AH(1), Conklin BR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Gladstone Institute of Cardiovascular Disease, San Francisco, California
94158; (2)Gladstone Institute of Cardiovascular Disease, San Francisco,
California 94158; Departments of Medicine, and Cellular and Molecular
Pharmacology, University of California, San Francisco, California 94143.

This protocol is designed to detect single-nucleotide substitutions generated by 
genome editing in a highly sensitive and quantitative manner. It uses a
combination of allele-specific hydrolysis probes and a new digital polymerase
chain reaction (dPCR) technology called droplet digital PCR (ddPCR). ddPCR
partitions a reaction into more than 10,000 nanoliter-scale water-in-oil
droplets. As a result, each droplet contains only a few copies of the genome so
that ddPCR is able to detect rare genome-editing events without missing them.

© 2016 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.

DOI: 10.1101/pdb.prot086801 
PMID: 27250210 


391. Mol Genet Genomic Med. 2016 Jan 20;4(3):257-61. doi: 10.1002/mgg3.200.
eCollection 2016.

Mosaic ratio quantification of isochromosome 12p in Pallister-Killian syndrome
using droplet digital PCR.

Fujiki K(1), Shirahige K(1), Kaur M(2), Deardorff MA(3), Conlin LK(4), Krantz
ID(3), Izumi K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research Center for Epigenetic Disease, Institute for Molecular and Cellular
Biosciences The University of Tokyo Tokyo Japan. (2)Division of Human Genetics
The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Philadelphia Pennsylvania. (3)Division of
Human GeneticsThe Children's Hospital of PhiladelphiaPhiladelphiaPennsylvania;
The Perelman School of Medicine at The University of
PennsylvaniaPhiladelphiaPennsylvania. (4)The Perelman School of Medicine at The
University of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphiaPennsylvania; Department of Pathology and
Laboratory MedicineThe Children's Hospital of
PhiladelphiaPhiladelphiaPennsylvania19104.

BACKGROUND: Pallister-Killian syndrome (PKS) is a prototypic mosaic aneuploidy
syndrome caused by mosaic supernumerary marker isochromosome 12p. Cells
possessing the isochromosome 12p rapidly diminish after birth in the peripheral
blood, often necessitating a skin biopsy for diagnosis. Therefore, a genomic
testing that is capable of detecting low percent mosaic isochromosome 12p is
preferred for the diagnosis of PKS.
METHODS: The utility of the droplet digital PCR system in quantifying the mosaic 
ratio of isochromosome 12p in PKS was evaluated.
RESULTS: Droplet digital PCR was able to precisely quantify isochromosome 12p
mosaic ratio, and copy number measured by droplet digital PCR was correlated well
with that of fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis.
CONCLUSION: Droplet digital PCR should be considered as an effective tool for
both clinical and research analytics to precisely quantify mosaic genomic copy
number alterations or mosaic mutations.

DOI: 10.1002/mgg3.200 
PMCID: PMC4867559
PMID: 27247953 


392. Acta Neuropathol Commun. 2016 Jun 1;4(1):56. doi: 10.1186/s40478-016-0328-1.

Germline or somatic GPR101 duplication leads to X-linked acrogigantism: a
clinico-pathological and genetic study.

Iacovazzo D(1), Caswell R(2), Bunce B(2), Jose S(3), Yuan B(4), Hernández-Ramírez
LC(1,)(5), Kapur S(1), Caimari F(1), Evanson J(6), Ferraù F(1), Dang MN(1),
Gabrovska P(1), Larkin SJ(7), Ansorge O(7), Rodd C(8), Vance ML(9),
Ramírez-Renteria C(10), Mercado M(10), Goldstone AP(11), Buchfelder M(12), Burren
CP(13), Gurlek A(14), Dutta P(15), Choong CS(16), Cheetham T(17), Trivellin G(5),
Stratakis CA(5), Lopes MB(18), Grossman AB(19), Trouillas J(20), Lupski
JR(4,)(21,)(22,)(23), Ellard S(2), Sampson JR(3), Roncaroli F(24), Korbonits
M(25).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Endocrinology, Barts and The London School of Medicine, London,
EC1M 6BQ, UK. (2)Institute of Biomedical and Clinical Science, University of
Exeter Medical School, Exeter, EX2 5DW, UK. (3)Institute of Medical Genetics,
Cardiff University, Cardiff, CF14 4XN, UK. (4)Department of Molecular and Human
Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, 77030, USA. (5)Section on
Endocrinology and Genetics, Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child
Health and Human Development (NICHD), NIH, Bethesda, MD, 20892, USA.
(6)Department of Radiology, Barts Health NHS Trust, London, EC1A 7BE, UK.
(7)Department of Neuropathology, Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences,
University of Oxford, Oxford, OX1 2JD, UK. (8)Department of Pediatrics and Child 
Health, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3T 2 N2, Canada.
(9)Department of Endocrinology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, 22908,
USA. (10)Endocrinology Service and Experimental Endocrinology Unit, Hospital de
Especialidades Centro Médico Nacional Siglo XXI, IMSS, UNAM, Mexico City, 06720, 
Mexico. (11)Imperial Centre for Endocrinology, Imperial College Healthcare NHS
Trust, W12 0HS, London, UK. (12)Department of Neurosurgery, University of
Duisburg-Essen, Essen, 45141, Germany. (13)Department of Paediatric
Endocrinology, University Hospitals Bristol NHS Foundation Trust, Bristol, BS2
8HW, UK. (14)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Faculty of Medicine,
Hacettepe University, Ankara, 06100, Turkey. (15)Department of Endocrinology,
PGIMER, Chandigarh, 160012, India. (16)Department of Pediatric Endocrinology,
Princess Margaret Hospital for Children, Subiaco, 6008, Australia. (17)Newcastle 
University c/o Department of Paediatric Endocrinology, Royal Victoria Infirmary, 
Newcastle-upon-Tyne, NE1 4LP, UK. (18)Department of Pathology, University of
Virginia, Charlottesville, 22908, USA. (19)Oxford Centre for Diabetes,
Endocrinology and Metabolism, Radcliffe Department of Medicine, University of
Oxford, Oxford, OX1 2JD, UK. (20)Department of Pathology, Groupement Hospitalier 
Est, Hospices Civils de Lyon, Bron, 69500, France. (21)Department of Pediatrics, 
Baylor College of Medicine Houston, Houston, TX, 77030, USA. (22)Human Genome
Sequencing Center, Baylor College of Medicine Houston, Houston, TX, 77030, USA.
(23)Texas Children's Hospital, Houston, TX, 77030, USA. (24)Institute of Brain,
Behaviour and Mental Health, University of Manchester, Manchester, M13 9PL, UK.
(25)Centre for Endocrinology, Barts and The London School of Medicine, London,
EC1M 6BQ, UK. m.korbonits@qmul.ac.uk.

Non-syndromic pituitary gigantism can result from AIP mutations or the recently
identified Xq26.3 microduplication causing X-linked acrogigantism (XLAG). Within 
Xq26.3, GPR101 is believed to be the causative gene, and the c.924G > C (p.E308D)
variant in this orphan G protein-coupled receptor has been suggested to play a
role in the pathogenesis of acromegaly.We studied 153 patients (58 females and 95
males) with pituitary gigantism. AIP mutation-negative cases were screened for
GPR101 duplication through copy number variation droplet digital PCR and
high-density aCGH. The genetic, clinical and histopathological features of XLAG
patients were studied in detail. 395 peripheral blood and 193 pituitary tumor DNA
samples from acromegaly patients were tested for GPR101 variants.We identified 12
patients (10 females and 2 males; 7.8 %) with XLAG. In one subject, the
duplicated region only contained GPR101, but not the other three genes in found
to be duplicated in the previously reported patients, defining a new smallest
region of overlap of duplications. While females presented with germline
mutations, the two male patients harbored the mutation in a mosaic state. Nine
patients had pituitary adenomas, while three had hyperplasia. The comparison of
the features of XLAG, AIP-positive and GPR101&AIP-negative patients revealed
significant differences in sex distribution, age at onset, height, prolactin
co-secretion and histological features. The pathological features of XLAG-related
adenomas were remarkably similar. These tumors had a sinusoidal and lobular
architecture. Sparsely and densely granulated somatotrophs were admixed with
lactotrophs; follicle-like structures and calcifications were commonly observed. 
Patients with sporadic of familial acromegaly did not have an increased
prevalence of the c.924G > C (p.E308D) GPR101 variant compared to public
databases.In conclusion, XLAG can result from germline or somatic duplication of 
GPR101. Duplication of GPR101 alone is sufficient for the development of XLAG,
implicating it as the causative gene within the Xq26.3 region. The pathological
features of XLAG-associated pituitary adenomas are typical and, together with the
clinical phenotype, should prompt genetic testing.

DOI: 10.1186/s40478-016-0328-1 
PMCID: PMC4888203
PMID: 27245663 


393. Front Microbiol. 2016 May 13;7:676. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2016.00676. eCollection
2016.

Strategies for Human Tumor Virus Discoveries: From Microscopic Observation to
Digital Transcriptome Subtraction.

Mirvish ED(1), Shuda M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, Pittsburgh
PA, USA. (2)Cancer Virology Program, University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute,
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh PA, USA.

Over 20% of human cancers worldwide are associated with infectious agents,
including viruses, bacteria, and parasites. Various methods have been used to
identify human tumor viruses, including electron microscopic observations of
viral particles, immunologic screening, cDNA library screening, nucleic acid
hybridization, consensus PCR, viral DNA array chip, and representational
difference analysis. With the Human Genome Project, a large amount of genetic
information from humans and other organisms has accumulated over the last decade.
Utilizing the available genetic databases, Feng et al. (2007) developed digital
transcriptome subtraction (DTS), an in silico method to sequentially subtract
human sequences from tissue or cellular transcriptome, and discovered Merkel cell
polyomavirus (MCV) from Merkel cell carcinoma. Here, we review the background and
methods underlying the human tumor virus discoveries and explain how DTS was
developed and used for the discovery of MCV.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2016.00676 
PMCID: PMC4865503
PMID: 27242703 


394. Benef Microbes. 2016 Sep;7(4):559-69. doi: 10.3920/BM2015.0195. Epub 2016 May 31.

Determination of Bifidobacterium and Lactobacillus in breast milk of healthy
women by digital PCR.

Qian L(1,)(2), Song H(1,)(2), Cai W(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)1 Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai Institute for Pediatric Research, Shanghai Jiao
Tong University, School of Medicine, Kongjiang Road 1665, Shanghai 200092, China 
P.R. (2)2 Shanghai Key Laboratory of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Nutrition,
Kongjiang Road 1665, Shanghai 200092, China P.R.

Breast milk is one of the most important sources of postnatal microbes.
Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) is currently used for 
the quantitative analysis of bacterial 16S rRNA genes in breast milk. However,
this method relies on the use of standard curves and is imprecise when
quantitating target DNA of low abundance. In contrast, droplet digital PCR
(DD-PCR) provides an absolute quantitation without the need for calibration
curves. A comparison between DD-PCR and qRT-PCR was conducted for the
quantitation of Bifidobacterium and Lactobacillus 16S RNA genes in human breast
milk, and the impacts of selected maternal factors were studied on the
composition of these two bacteria in breast milk. From this study, DD-PCR
reported between 0-34,460 16S rRNA gene copies of Bifidobacterium genera and
between 1,108-634,000 16S rRNA gene copies of Lactobacillus genera in 1 ml breast
milk. The 16S rRNA gene copy number of Lactobacillus genera was much greater than
that of Bifidobacterium genera in breast milk. DD-PCR showed a 10-fold lower
limit of quantitation as compared to qRT-PCR. A higher correlation and agreement 
was observed between qRT-PCR and DD-PCR in Lactobacillus quantitation as compared
to Bifidobacterium quantitation. Based on our DD-PCR quantitation, a low
abundance of Bifidobacterium bacteria in breast milk was correlated to higher
pre-pregnancy body mass index (BMI). However, no significant difference was
observed for these two bacteria in breast milk between mothers who had vaginal
deliveries and caesarean deliveries. This study suggests that DD-PCR is a better 
tool to quantitate the bacterial load of breast milk compared to the conventional
qRT-PCR method. The number of breast milk Bifidobacterium bacteria is influenced 
by maternal pre-pregnancy BMI.

DOI: 10.3920/BM2015.0195 
PMID: 27241905  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Ann Biol Clin (Paris). 2016 Jun 1;74(3):269-77. doi: 10.1684/abc.2016.1139.

Droplet digital PCR, a new approach to analyze fetal DNA from maternal blood:
application to the determination of fetal RHD genotype.

Orhant L(1), Rondeau S(1), Vasson A(1), Anselem O(2), Goffinet F(2), Allach El
Khattabi L(3), Leturcq F(4), Vidaud D(5), Bienvenu T(6), Tsatsaris V(2), Nectoux 
J(6).

Author information: 
(1)Service de biochimie et génétique moléculaire, HUPC Hôpital Cochin, Paris,
France. (2)Maternité Cochin-Port Royal, HUPC Hôpital Cochin, Paris, France.
(3)Laboratoire de cytogénétique, Hôpital Cochin-Maternité Port-Royal, AP-HP,
Paris, France, Inserm U1016, Institut Cochin, Paris, France. (4)Service de
biochimie et génétique moléculaire, HUPC Hôpital Cochin, Paris, France, Institut 
de myologie UPMC UM76 Inserm U974 CNRS UMR7215, GH Pitié-Salpêtrière, Paris,
France. (5)Service de biochimie et génétique moléculaire, HUPC Hôpital Cochin,
Paris, France, EA7331, Faculté de pharmacie Paris, Université Paris-Descartes
Sorbonne Paris-Cité, Paris, France. (6)Service de biochimie et génétique
moléculaire, HUPC Hôpital Cochin, Paris, France, Inserm U1016, Institut Cochin,
Paris, France.

The discovery of free fetal DNA in the maternal circulation has inaugurated the
era of non-invasive prenatal diagnosis. The latter has the advantage of avoiding 
the use of conventional obstetric procedures, such as chorionic villus sampling
or aspiration of amniotic fluid, thus limiting the risks of miscarriage they
induce. However, as free fetal DNA accounts for about 10% of cell-free DNA in
maternal plasma, the presence of ambient maternal DNA can make it difficult to
detect fetal alleles of paternal origin. Digital Droplet PCR (ddPCR) is a very
sensitive method derived from quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) for the detection
of rare alleles and their absolute quantification by removing the necessity of
standards. Here we show that this new technology can be applied in routine
prenatal fetal RHD genotyping from maternal blood. In conclusion, the use of
quantitative properties of digital PCR, in terms of accuracy, sensitivity and
specificity, allows one to consider extending the applications of this new
technology in non-invasive prenatal diagnosis of many diseases such as autosomal 
monogenic diseases, either dominant or recessive.

DOI: 10.1684/abc.2016.1139 
PMID: 27237800  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Clin Cancer Res. 2016 Oct 15;22(20):5141-5151. Epub 2016 May 26.

Cyst Fluid Telomerase Activity Predicts the Histologic Grade of Cystic Neoplasms 
of the Pancreas.

Hata T(1), Dal Molin M(1), Suenaga M(1), Yu J(1), Pittman M(1), Weiss M(2), Canto
MI(3), Wolfgang C(2), Lennon AM(3), Hruban RH(4), Goggins M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, The Sol Goldman Pancreatic Cancer Research Center,
Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore, Maryland. (2)Department of
Surgery, The Sol Goldman Pancreatic Cancer Research Center, Johns Hopkins Medical
Institutions, Baltimore, Maryland. (3)Department of Surgery, The Sol Goldman
Pancreatic Cancer Research Center, Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore,
Maryland. Department of Medicine, The Sol Goldman Pancreatic Cancer Research
Center, Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore, Maryland. (4)Department of
Pathology, The Sol Goldman Pancreatic Cancer Research Center, Johns Hopkins
Medical Institutions, Baltimore, Maryland. Department of Oncology, The Sol
Goldman Pancreatic Cancer Research Center, Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions,
Baltimore, Maryland. (5)Department of Pathology, The Sol Goldman Pancreatic
Cancer Research Center, Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore, Maryland. 
Department of Medicine, The Sol Goldman Pancreatic Cancer Research Center, Johns 
Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore, Maryland. Department of Oncology, The
Sol Goldman Pancreatic Cancer Research Center, Johns Hopkins Medical
Institutions, Baltimore, Maryland. mgoggins@jhmi.edu.

PURPOSE: Pancreatic cysts frequently pose clinical dilemmas. On one hand, cysts
with high-grade dysplasia offer opportunities for cure, on the other hand, those 
with low-grade dysplasia are easily over treated. Cyst fluid markers have the
potential to improve the evaluation of these cysts. Because telomerase activity
is commonly activated in malignant cells, we evaluated the diagnostic performance
of cyst fluid telomerase activity measurements for predicting histologic grade.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Telomerase activity was measured using telomerase repeat
amplification with digital-droplet PCR in surgically aspirated cyst fluid samples
from 219 patients who underwent pancreatic resection for a cystic lesion (184
discovery, 35 validation) and 36 patients who underwent endoscopic ultrasound
fine-needle aspiration. Methodologic and clinical factors associated with
telomerase activity were examined.
RESULTS: Telomerase activity was reduced in samples that had undergone prior
thawing. Among 119 samples not previously thawed, surgical cyst fluids from
cystic neoplasms with high-grade dysplasia ± associated invasive cancer had
higher telomerase activity [median (interquartile range), 1,158 (295.9-13,033)]
copies/μL of cyst fluid than those without [19.74 (2.58-233.6) copies/μL; P <
0.001)]. Elevated cyst fluid telomerase activity had a diagnostic accuracy for
invasive cancer/high-grade dysplasia of 88.1% (discovery), 88.6% (validation),
and 88.2% (merged). Among cysts classified preoperatively as having "worrisome
features," cyst fluid telomerase activity had high diagnostic performance
(sensitivity 73.7%, specificity 90.6%, accuracy, 86.1%). In multivariate
analysis, telomerase activity independently predicted the presence of invasive
cancer/high-grade dysplasia.
CONCLUSIONS: Cyst fluid telomerase activity can be a useful predictor of the
neoplastic grade of pancreatic cysts. Clin Cancer Res; 22(20); 5141-51. ©2016
AACRSee related commentary by Allen et al., p. 4966.

©2016 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-0311 
PMCID: PMC5065739 [Available on 2017-10-15]
PMID: 27230749 

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflict of interests


397. Br J Cancer. 2016 Jun 14;114(12):1362-6. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2016.151. Epub 2016 May
26.

A circulating miRNA assay as a first-line test for prostate cancer screening.

Sharova E(1), Grassi A(2), Marcer A(2), Ruggero K(2), Pinto F(3), Bassi P(3),
Zanovello P(1,)(2), Zattoni F(2), D'Agostino DM(4), Iafrate M(2), Ciminale
V(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Veneto Institute of Oncology, IRCCS, Immunology and Molecular Oncology Unit,
via Gattamelata 64, 35128 Padova, Italy. (2)Department of Surgery, Oncology and
Gastroenterology, University of Padova, via Gattamelata 64, 35128 Padova, Italy. 
(3)Department of Urology, University of Rome La Cattolica, Largo Francesco Vito
1, 00168 Rome, Italy. (4)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Padova,
via Ugo Bassi 58/B, 35121 Padova, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Prostate cancer (PCa) screening currently relies on prostate-specific
antigen (PSA) testing and digital rectal examination. However, recent large-scale
studies have questioned the long-term efficacy of these tests, and biomarkers
that accurately identify PCa are needed.
METHODS: We analysed the levels of circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) in patients
with elevated PSA who were diagnosed with either localised PCa (n=36) or benign
prostatic hyperplasia (BPH, n=31) upon biopsy. Real-time RT-PCR with Taqman
probes was used to measure plasma levels of miRNAs. To circumvent problems
associated with circulating miRNA quantitation, we computed the expression ratios
of upregulated and downregulated miRNAs.
RESULTS: The miR-106a/miR-130b and miR-106a/miR-223 ratios were significantly
different between the biopsy-positive and BPH groups (P<0.0001), and yielded
statistical power values that were >0.99. Both miRNA ratios were highly sensitive
and more specific than PSA in discriminating localised PCa from BPH. Receiver
operating characteristic curve analysis revealed area under curve values of 0.81 
(miR-106a/miR-130b) and 0.77 (miR-106a/miR-223).
CONCLUSIONS: Testing for circulating miR-106a/miR-130b and miR-106a/miR-223
ratios may reduce the costs and morbidity of unnecessary biopsies and is feasible
for large-scale screening, as it requires measuring only three miRNAs.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.2016.151 
PMCID: PMC4984473 [Available on 2017-06-14]
PMID: 27228285 


398. J Matern Fetal Neonatal Med. 2017 Mar;30(6):710-716. doi:
10.1080/14767058.2016.1183633. Epub 2016 May 26.

Validation of a method for noninvasive prenatal testing for fetal aneuploidies
risk and considerations for its introduction in the Public Health System.

Gerundino F(1), Giachini C(1), Contini E(1), Benelli M(1), Marseglia G(1),
Giuliani C(1), Marin F(1), Nannetti G(1), Lisi E(1), Sbernini F(1), Periti E(2), 
Cordisco A(2), Colosi E(3), D'ambrosio V(3), Mazzi M(4), Rossi M(4), Staderini
L(1), Minuti B(1), Pelo E(5), Cicatiello R(6), Maruotti GM(7), Sglavo G(7), Conti
A(6), Frusconi S(1), Pescucci C(1), Torricelli F(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Diagnostic Genetics Unit, Careggi University Hospital , Firenze , Italy.
(2)b Prenatal Diagnosis Unit, Azienda Sanitaria Firenze , Firenze , Italy. (3)c
Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology , Reproductive Medicine and Prenatal Care
Unit, Misericordia Hospital , Grosseto , Italy. (4)d Division of Molecular and
Reproduction Diagnostics , Misericordia Hospital , Grosseto , Italy. (5)e Medical
Genetics Unit, Azienda Sanitaria Firenze , Firenze , Italy. (6)f Department of
Molecular Medicine and Medical Biotechnology University "Federico II" , Napoli , 
Italy. (7)g Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics , University "Federico II" , 
Napoli , Italy.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to validate noninvasive prenatal testing
(NIPT) for fetal aneuploidies by whole-genome massively parallel sequencing
(MPS).
METHODS: MPS was performed on cell-free DNA (cfDNA) isolated from maternal plasma
in two groups: a first set of 186 euploid samples and a second set of 195 samples
enriched of aneuploid cases (n = 69); digital PCR for fetal fraction (FF)
assessment was performed on 178/381 samples. Cases with <10 × 10(6) reads
(n = 54) were excluded for downstream data analysis. Follow-up data (invasive
testing results or neonatal information) were available for all samples.
Performances in terms of specificity/sensitivity and Z-score distributions were
evaluated.
RESULTS: All positive samples for trisomy 21 (T21) (n = 43), trisomy 18 (T18)
(n = 6) and trisomy 13 (T13) (n = 7) were correctly identified (sensitivity:
99.9%); 5 false positive results were reported: 3 for T21 (specificity = 98.9%)
and 2 for T13 (specificity = 99.4%). Besides FF, total cfDNA concentration seems 
another important parameter for MPS, since it influences the number of reads.
CONCLUSIONS: The overall test accuracy allowed us introducing NIPT for T21, T18
and T13 as a clinical service for pregnant women after 10 + 4 weeks of gestation.
Sex chromosome aneuploidy assessment needs further validation due to the limited 
number of aneuploid cases in this study.

DOI: 10.1080/14767058.2016.1183633 
PMID: 27226231 


399. Toxins (Basel). 2016 May 18;8(5). pii: E157. doi: 10.3390/toxins8050157.

Comparison of Droplet Digital PCR and qPCR for the Quantification of Shiga
Toxin-Producing Escherichia coli in Bovine Feces.

Verhaegen B(1,)(2), De Reu K(3), De Zutter L(4), Verstraete K(5), Heyndrickx
M(6,)(7), Van Coillie E(8).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Agriculture and Fishery Research (ILVO), Technology and Food
Science Unit, Brusselsesteenweg 370, Melle 9090, Belgium.
bavo.verhaegen@ilvo.vlaanderen.be. (2)Department of Veterinary Public Health and 
Food Safety, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Ghent University, Salisburylaan 133,
Merelbeke 9820, Belgium. bavo.verhaegen@ilvo.vlaanderen.be. (3)Institute of
Agriculture and Fishery Research (ILVO), Technology and Food Science Unit,
Brusselsesteenweg 370, Melle 9090, Belgium. koen.dereu@ilvo.vlaanderen.be.
(4)Department of Veterinary Public Health and Food Safety, Faculty of Veterinary 
Medicine, Ghent University, Salisburylaan 133, Merelbeke 9820, Belgium.
lieven.dezutter@ugent.be. (5)Institute of Agriculture and Fishery Research
(ILVO), Technology and Food Science Unit, Brusselsesteenweg 370, Melle 9090,
Belgium. karen.verstraete@ilvo.vlaanderen.be. (6)Institute of Agriculture and
Fishery Research (ILVO), Technology and Food Science Unit, Brusselsesteenweg 370,
Melle 9090, Belgium. marc.heyndrickx@ilvo.vlaanderen.be. (7)Department of
Pathology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Bacteriology and Poultry Diseases,
Ghent University; Salisburylaan 133, Merelbeke 9820, Belgium.
marc.heyndrickx@ilvo.vlaanderen.be. (8)Institute of Agriculture and Fishery
Research (ILVO), Technology and Food Science Unit, Brusselsesteenweg 370, Melle
9090, Belgium. els.vancoillie@ilvo.vlaanderen.be.

Cattle are considered to be the main reservoir for Shiga toxin-producing
Escherichia coli (STEC) and are often the direct or indirect source of STEC
outbreaks in humans. Accurate measurement of the concentration of shed STEC in
cattle feces could be a key answer to questions concerning transmission of STEC, 
contamination sources and efficiency of treatments at farm level. Infected
animals can be identified and the contamination level quantified by real-time
quantitative PCR (qPCR), which has its specific limitations. Droplet digital PCR 
(ddPCR) has been proposed as a method to overcome many of the drawbacks of qPCR. 
This end-point amplification PCR is capable of absolute quantification
independent from any reference material and is less prone to PCR inhibition than 
qPCR. In this study, the qPCR-based protocol described by Verstraete et al.
(2014) for Shiga toxin genes stx1 and stx2 and the intimin gene eae
quantification was optimized for ddPCR analysis. The properties of ddPCR and qPCR
using two different mastermixes (EMM: TaqMan(®) Environmental Master Mix 2.0;
UMM: TaqMan(®) Universal PCR Master Mix) were evaluated, using standard curves
and both artificial and natural contaminated cattle fecal samples. In addition,
the susceptibility of these assays to PCR-inhibitors was investigated. Evaluation
of the standard curves and both artificial and natural contaminated cattle fecal 
samples suggested a very good agreement between qPCR using EMM and ddPCR.
Furthermore, similar sensitivities and no PCR inhibition were recorded for both
assays. On the other hand, qPCR using UMM was clearly prone to PCR inhibition. In
conclusion, the ddPCR technique shows potential for the accurate absolute
quantification of STEC on the farms, without relying on standardized reference
material.

DOI: 10.3390/toxins8050157 
PMCID: PMC4885071
PMID: 27213452 


400. J Microbiol Methods. 2016 Aug;127:1-6. doi: 10.1016/j.mimet.2016.05.012. Epub
2016 May 17.

Detection and quantification of Bacillus cereus group in milk by droplet digital 
PCR.

Porcellato D(1), Narvhus J(2), Skeie SB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Biotechnology and Food Science, Norwegian University 
of Life Science, P.O. Box 5003, N-1432 Ås, Norway. Electronic address:
davide.porcellato@nmbu.no. (2)Department of Chemistry, Biotechnology and Food
Science, Norwegian University of Life Science, P.O. Box 5003, N-1432 Ås, Norway.

Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) is one of the newest and most promising methods for
the detection and quantification of molecular targets by PCR. Here, we optimized 
and used a new ddPCR assay for the detection and quantification of the Bacillus
cereus group in milk. We also compared the ddPCR to a standard qPCR assay. The
new ddPCR assay showed a similar coefficient of determination and a better limit 
of detection compared to the qPCR assay during quantification of the target
molecules in the samples. However, the ddPCR assay has a limitation during
quantification of a high number of target molecules. This new assay was then
tested for the quantification of the B. cereus group in 90 milk samples obtained 
over three months from two different dairies and the milk was stored at different
temperatures before sampling. The ddPCR assay showed good agreement with the qPCR
assay for the quantification of the B. cereus group in milk, and due to its lower
detection limit more samples were detected as positive. The new ddPCR assay is a 
promising method for the quantification of target bacteria in low concentration
in milk.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mimet.2016.05.012 
PMID: 27211508 


401. J Thorac Oncol. 2016 Apr;11(4 Suppl):S124-5. doi: 10.1016/S1556-0864(16)30263-5. 
Epub 2016 Apr 15.

153P: Real-time PCR and digital PCR approach for detecting EGFR status in plasma 
of patients with NSCLC.

Gordiev M(1), Sakaeva D(2), Blokhina M(2), Nikitin A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular-diagnostic laboratory, Kazan Cancer Centre, Kazan, Russian
Federation. (2)Chemotherapy, Republican Clinical Oncology Center, Ufa, Russian
Federation. (3)Genetic laboratory, Federal Research and Clinical Center, FMBA,
Moscow, Russian Federation.

DOI: 10.1016/S1556-0864(16)30263-5 
PMID: 27198291 


402. Toxicol Lett. 2016 Jul 25;255:47-51. doi: 10.1016/j.toxlet.2016.05.009. Epub 2016
May 14.

Genetic polymorphisms in biotransformation enzymes for benzo[a]pyrene and related
levels of benzo[a]pyrene-7,8-diol-9,10-epoxide-DNA adducts in Goeckerman therapy.

Beranek M(1), Fiala Z(2), Kremlacek J(3), Andrys C(4), Hamakova K(5), Chmelarova 
M(6), Palicka V(6), Borska L(7).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Biochemistry and Diagnostics, Charles University
Hospital and Faculty of Medicine in Hradec Kralove, 50005 Hradec Kralove, Czech
Republic; Department of Biochemical Sciences, Charles University in Prague,
Faculty of Pharmacy in Hradec Kralove, 50005 Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic.
(2)Institute of Hygiene and Preventive Medicine, Charles University in Prague,
Faculty of Medicine in Hradec Kralove, 50038 Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic.
(3)Institute of Pathological Physiology, Charles University in Prague, Faculty of
Medicine in Hradec Kralove, 50038 Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic. (4)Institute of
Clinical Immunology and Allergology, Charles University in Prague, Faculty of
Medicine in Hradec Kralove, 50038 Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic. (5)Clinic of
Dermal and Venereal Diseases, Charles University Hospital Hradec Kralove, 50005
Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic. (6)Institute of Clinical Biochemistry and
Diagnostics, Charles University Hospital and Faculty of Medicine in Hradec
Kralove, 50005 Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic. (7)Institute of Pathological
Physiology, Charles University in Prague, Faculty of Medicine in Hradec Kralove, 
50038 Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic. Electronic address: borka@lfhk.cuni.cz.

Goeckerman therapy (GT) for psoriasis combines the therapeutic effect of crude
coal tar (CCT) and ultraviolet radiation (UVR). CCT contains polycyclic aromatic 
hydrocarbons, some of which can form DNA adducts that may induce mutations and
contribute to carcinogenesis. The aim of our work was to evaluate the
relationship between concentrations of benzo[a]pyrene-7,8-diol-9,10-epoxide-DNA
adducts (BPDE-DNA adducts) and rs4646903 (CYP1A1 gene), rs1048943 (CYP1A1),
rs1056836 (CYP1B1), rs1051740 (EPHX1), rs2234922 (EPHX1) and rs8175347 (UGT1A1)
polymorphic sites, and GSTM1 null polymorphism in 46 patients with chronic stable
plaque psoriasis who underwent GT. The level of BPDE-DNA adducts was determined
using the OxiSelect BPDE-DNA Adduct ELISA Kit. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
and restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis (rs4646903, rs1048943,
rs1051740, and rs2234922), fragment analysis (rs8175347), real-time PCR
(rs1056836), and digital droplet PCR polymorphism (GSTM1) were used. CYP1B1*1/*1 
wild-type subjects and CYP1B1*3/*1 heterozygotes for rs1056836 formed
significantly higher amounts of BPDE-DNA adducts than CYP1B1*3/*3 homozygotes
(p=0.031 and p=0.005, respectively). Regarding rs1051740, individuals with
EPHX1*3/*1 heterozygosity revealed fewer adducts than EPHX1*1/*1 wild-type
subjects (p=0.026). Our data suggest that CYP1B1/EPHX1 genotyping could help to
predict the risk of DNA damage and to optimize doses of coal tar and UVR exposure
in psoriatic patients in whom GT was applied.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.toxlet.2016.05.009 
PMID: 27188524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Springerplus. 2016 Apr 26;5:531. doi: 10.1186/s40064-016-2141-5. eCollection
2016.

Circulating DNA addresses cancer monitoring in non small cell lung cancer
patients for detection and capturing the dynamic changes of the disease.

Wei Z(1), Shah N(2), Deng C(1), Xiao X(1), Zhong T(1), Li X(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnostic Medicine, JingMen NO.1 People's Hospital, JingMen,
People's Republic of China. (2)Department of Clinical Medicine, JingChu
University of Technology, JingMen, People's Republic of China. (3)Department of
Neurosurgery, JingZhou Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of
Science and Technology (HUST), Renmin Road 1, JingZhou, 434020 People's Republic 
of China.

PURPOSE: Monitoring of key markers for lung cancer detection and tracking of
acquired drug resistance is critical for the management of the disease. We aim to
ascertain the value of monitoring both total cell free DNA concentrations and
mutant EGFR DNA content within diverse groups of individuals most vulnerable to
the disease.
METHODS: We proposed longitudinal monitoring of circulating DNA using digital
PCR. Circulating DNA present in peripheral blood can be obtained non-invasively
and provide timely disease status update. 25 heavy smokers and 50 patients
undergoing TKI therapy were recruited. Peripheral blood specimens were taken at
different time points and their circulating DNA were analyzed and quantified.
RESULTS: Significant higher concentrations of total cell free DNA were detected
when compared with healthy high-risk individuals. Levels were stable throughout
the treatment cycles, which makes it potentially a useful tool for patient
stratification. Concurrent mutant T790M DNA detection of lung cancer patients at 
baseline achieved 82 % concordance with matched tissue analysis. Samples
initially negative for the T790M gene mutation that became positive during
treatment were corroborated with a repeat biopsy. The results showed its
usefulness for serial monitoring.
CONCLUSION: Monitoring of circulating DNA addresses the need for disease
detection and shows the ability to capture the dynamic changes of the disease.

DOI: 10.1186/s40064-016-2141-5 
PMCID: PMC4844578
PMID: 27186495 


404. J Mol Diagn. 2016 Jul;18(4):494-506. doi: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2016.02.008. Epub 2016
May 13.

Accurate Sample Assignment in a Multiplexed, Ultrasensitive, High-Throughput
Sequencing Assay for Minimal Residual Disease.

Bartram J(1), Mountjoy E(2), Brooks T(3), Hancock J(4), Williamson H(4), Wright
G(5), Moppett J(6), Goulden N(5), Hubank M(7).

Author information: 
(1)Genetics and Genomic Medicine Program, Institute of Child Health, University
College London, London, United Kingdom; Department of Haematology, Great Ormond
Street Hospital for Children, London, United Kingdom. (2)School of Social and
Community Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol, United Kingdom. (3)UCL
Genomics Centre, Institute of Child Health, University College London, London,
United Kingdom. (4)Bristol Genetics Laboratory, Southmead Hospital, North Bristol
NHS Trust, Bristol, United Kingdom. (5)Department of Haematology, Great Ormond
Street Hospital for Children, London, United Kingdom. (6)Department of Paediatric
Haematology/Oncology, Royal Hospital for Children, Bristol, United Kingdom.
(7)Genetics and Genomic Medicine Program, Institute of Child Health, University
College London, London, United Kingdom; UCL Genomics Centre, Institute of Child
Health, University College London, London, United Kingdom. Electronic address:
michael.hubank@icr.ac.uk.

High-throughput sequencing (HTS) (next-generation sequencing) of the rearranged
Ig and T-cell receptor genes promises to be less expensive and more sensitive
than current methods of monitoring minimal residual disease (MRD) in patients
with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. However, the adoption of new approaches by
clinical laboratories requires careful evaluation of all potential sources of
error and the development of strategies to ensure the highest accuracy. Timely
and efficient clinical use of HTS platforms will depend on combining multiple
samples (multiplexing) in each sequencing run. Here we examine the Ig heavy-chain
gene HTS on the Illumina MiSeq platform for MRD. We identify errors associated
with multiplexing that could potentially impact the accuracy of MRD analysis. We 
optimize a strategy that combines high-purity, sequence-optimized
oligonucleotides, dual indexing, and an error-aware demultiplexing approach to
minimize errors and maximize sensitivity. We present a probability-based,
demultiplexing pipeline Error-Aware Demultiplexer that is suitable for all MiSeq 
strategies and accurately assigns samples to the correct identifier without
excessive loss of data. Finally, using controls quantified by digital PCR, we
show that HTS-MRD can accurately detect as few as 1 in 10(6) copies of specific
leukemic MRD.

Crown Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2016.02.008 
PMID: 27183494 


405. PLoS One. 2016 May 16;11(5):e0154939. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0154939.
eCollection 2016.

Increased Expression of SETD7 Promotes Cell Proliferation by Regulating Cell
Cycle and Indicates Poor Prognosis in Hepatocellular Carcinoma.

Chen Y(1), Yang S(1), Hu J(1), Yu C(2), He M(3), Cai Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Second Military Medical
University, Shanghai, 200433, China. (2)Department of Gynecology of Traditional
Chinese Medicine, Changhai Hospital, Second Military Medical University,
Shanghai, 200433, China. (3)Department of Pathology, Changhai Hospital, Second
Military Medical University, Shanghai, 200433, China.

PURPOSE: To investigate the role of SET domain containing 7 (SETD7) in
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and determine whether SETD7 can be used as a
predictor of overall survival in HCC patients.
METHODS: mRNAs and proteins of SETD7 and related genes in HCC tumor samples and
paired adjacent non-tumorous liver tissues (ANLTs) (n = 20) or culture cells were
determined by quantitative real-time PCR and Western blot. Cell proliferation and
apoptosis with SETD7 knockdown SMMC-7721 cells or SETD7 overexpressed HepG2 cells
were analyzed by CCK8 assay or flow cytometry. Gene expression alterations in
SETD7 knockdown of SMMC-7721 cells were determined by digital gene expression
(DGE) profiling. Defined data on patients (n = 225) with HCC were retrieved for
the further study. Tissue microarrays (TMAs) were performed using paraffin
tissues with tumor and ANLTs. SETD7 and related proteins were determined by TMAs 
immunohistochemistry. Statistical analyses were conducted to associate SETD7
expression with tumor features and patient outcomes, as well as related proteins 
expression.
RESULTS: SETD7 expression was significantly higher in HCC tumor tissues than in
ANLTs. SETD7 overexpression in vitro can promote HepG2 cell proliferation,
whereas SETD7 knockdown can inhibit SMMC-7721 cell proliferation by regulating
the cell cycle. SETD7 expression was significantly correlated with five genes
expression. Increased SETD7 is associated with metastasis, recurrence, large
tumor size, and poor tumor differentiation, and indicates poor prognosis in HCC
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: SETD7 plays a critical role in HCC, and its immunohistochemistry
signature provides potential clinical significance for personalized prediction of
HCC prognosis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0154939 
PMCID: PMC4868314
PMID: 27183310 


406. Clin Chim Acta. 2016 Jul 1;458:138-43. doi: 10.1016/j.cca.2016.05.007. Epub 2016 
May 12.

Screening for circulating RAS/RAF mutations by multiplex digital PCR.

Andersen RF(1), Jakobsen A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Immunology and Biochemistry, Vejle Hospital, Vejle,
Denmark. Electronic address: rikke.fredslund.andersen@rsyd.dk. (2)Department of
Oncology, Vejle Hospital, Vejle, Denmark.

Recent years have shown a large interest in the application of liquid biopsies in
cancer management. Circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) has been investigated for
potential use in treatment selection, monitoring of treatment response, and early
detection of recurrence. Advances have been hampered by technical challenges
primarily due to the low levels of ctDNA in patients with localized disease and
in patients responding to therapy. The approach presented here is a multiplex
digital PCR method of screening for 31 mutations in the KRAS, NRAS, BRAF, and
PIK3CA genes in the plasma. The upper level of the limit of blank, which defines 
the specificity of the multiplexes, was 0.006%-0.06%. Mutations found by
multiplex analyses were identified and quantified by duplex analyses. The method 
was tested on samples from cholangiocarcinoma patients with known tumor
mutational status. Mutations found in the tumor were also found in plasma samples
in all cases with analyses for all other mutations being negative. There was a
perfect agreement as to wild type status in tumor and plasma. The method combines
a high sensitivity with the ability to analyze for several mutations at a time
and could be a step towards routine clinical application of liquid biopsies.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cca.2016.05.007 
PMID: 27181912  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Lung Cancer. 2016 May 4. pii: S0169-5002(16)30312-9. doi:
10.1016/j.lungcan.2016.04.026. [Epub ahead of print]

Circulating cell-free nucleic acids and platelets as a liquid biopsy in the
provision of personalized therapy for lung cancer patients.

Sorber L(1), Zwaenepoel K(2), Deschoolmeester V(2), Van Schil PE(3), Van
Meerbeeck J(4), Lardon F(5), Rolfo C(6), Pauwels P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Oncological Research (CORE), University of Antwerp,
Universiteitsplein 1, 2610 Antwerp, Belgium; Department of Pathology, Antwerp
University Hospital, Wilrijkstraat 10, 2650 Antwerp, Belgium. Electronic address:
Laure.Sorber@Uantwerpen.Be. (2)Center for Oncological Research (CORE), University
of Antwerp, Universiteitsplein 1, 2610 Antwerp, Belgium; Department of Pathology,
Antwerp University Hospital, Wilrijkstraat 10, 2650 Antwerp, Belgium.
(3)Department of Thoracic and Vascular Surgery, Antwerp University Hospital,
Wilrijkstraat 10, 2650 Antwerp, Belgium. (4)Center for Oncological Research
(CORE), University of Antwerp, Universiteitsplein 1, 2610 Antwerp, Belgium;
Department of Thoracic Oncology/MOCA, Antwerp University Hospital, Wilrijkstraat 
10, 2650 Antwerp, Belgium. (5)Center for Oncological Research (CORE), University 
of Antwerp, Universiteitsplein 1, 2610 Antwerp, Belgium. (6)Oncology & Phase I
Unit-Early Clinical Trials, Antwerp University Hospital, Wilrijkstraat 10, 2650
Antwerp, Belgium.

Lung cancer is the predominant cause of cancer-related mortality in the world.
The majority of patients present with locally advanced or metastatic
non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Treatment for NSCLC is evolving from the use 
of cytotoxic chemotherapy to personalized treatment based on molecular
alterations. Unfortunately, the quality of the available tumor biopsy and/or
cytology material is not always adequate to perform the necessary molecular
testing, which has prompted the search for alternatives. This review examines the
use of circulating cell-free nucleic acids (cfNA), consisting of both circulating
cell-free (tumoral) DNA (cfDNA-ctDNA) and RNA (cfRNA), as a liquid biopsy in lung
cancer. The development of sensitive and accurate techniques such as
Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS); Beads, Emulsion, Amplification, and Magnetics
(BEAMing); and Digital PCR (dPCR), have made it possible to detect the specific
genetic alterations (e.g. EGFR mutations, MET amplifications, and ALK and ROS1
translocations) for which targeted therapies are already available. Moreover, the
ability to detect and quantify these tumor mutations has enabled the follow-up of
tumor dynamics in real time. Liquid biopsy offers opportunities to detect
resistance mechanisms, such as the EGFR T790M mutation in the case of EGFR TKI
use, at an early stage. Several studies have already established the predictive
and prognostic value of measuring ctNA concentration in the blood. To conclude,
using ctNA analysis as a liquid biopsy has many advantages and allows for a
variety of clinical and investigational applications.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2016.04.026 
PMID: 27180141 


408. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2016 Jun;157(2):253-65. doi: 10.1007/s10549-016-3829-5. 
Epub 2016 May 13.

ESR1 mutations affect anti-proliferative responses to tamoxifen through enhanced 
cross-talk with IGF signaling.

Gelsomino L(1), Gu G(2), Rechoum Y(2), Beyer AR(2), Pejerrey SM(2), Tsimelzon
A(2), Wang T(2), Huffman K(3), Ludlow A(3), Andò S(1), Fuqua SA(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Health, and Nutritional Sciences, University of
Calabria, Arcavacata di Rende, Cosenza, Italy. (2)Lester & Sue Smith Breast
Center, Baylor College of Medicine, One Baylor Plaza, Houston, TX, 77030, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
Dallas, TX, USA. (4)Lester & Sue Smith Breast Center, Baylor College of Medicine,
One Baylor Plaza, Houston, TX, 77030, USA. sfuqua@bcm.edu. (5)Dan L Duncan Cancer
Center, Houston, TX, USA. sfuqua@bcm.edu.

The purpose of this study was to address the role of ESR1 hormone-binding
mutations in breast cancer. Soft agar anchorage-independent growth assay, Western
blot, ERE reporter transactivation assay, proximity ligation assay (PLA),
coimmunoprecipitation assay, silencing assay, digital droplet PCR (ddPCR),
Kaplan-Meier analysis, and statistical analysis. It is now generally accepted
that estrogen receptor (ESR1) mutations occur frequently in metastatic breast
cancers; however, we do not yet know how to best treat these patients. We have
modeled the three most frequent hormone-binding ESR1 (HBD-ESR1) mutations (Y537N,
Y537S, and D538G) using stable lentiviral transduction in human breast cancer
cell lines. Effects on growth were examined in response to hormonal and targeted 
agents, and mutation-specific changes were studied using microarray and Western
blot analysis. We determined that the HBD-ESR1 mutations alter anti-proliferative
effects to tamoxifen (Tam), due to cell-intrinsic changes in activation of the
insulin-like growth factor receptor (IGF1R) signaling pathway and levels of
PIK3R1/PIK3R3. The selective estrogen receptor degrader, fulvestrant,
significantly reduced the anchorage-independent growth of ESR1 mutant-expressing 
cells, while combination treatments with the mTOR inhibitor everolimus, or an
inhibitor blocking IGF1R, and the insulin receptor significantly enhanced
anti-proliferative responses. Using digital drop (dd) PCR, we identified
mutations at high frequencies ranging from 12 % for Y537N, 5 % for Y537S, and 2 %
for D538G in archived primary breast tumors from women treated with adjuvant
mono-tamoxifen therapy. The HBD-ESR1 mutations were not associated with
recurrence-free or overall survival in response in this patient cohort and
suggest that knowledge of other cell-intrinsic factors in combination with ESR1
mutation status will be needed determine anti-proliferative responses to Tam.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-016-3829-5 
PMID: 27178332 


409. Oncotarget. 2016 Jun 14;7(24):37145-37159. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.9268.

Met and its ligand HGF are associated with clinical outcome in breast cancer.

Veenstra C(1), Pérez-Tenorio G(1), Stelling A(1), Karlsson E(1), Mirwani SM(1),
Nordensköljd B(1), Fornander T(2), Stål O(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine and Department of Oncology,
Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden. (2)Department of Oncology-Pathology,
Karolinska University Hospital and Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.

Few biomarkers exist to predict radiotherapy response in breast cancer. In vitro 
studies suggest a role for Met and its ligand HGF. To study this suggested role, 
MET and HGF gene copy numbers were determined by droplet digital PCR in tumours
from 205 pre-menopausal and 184 post-menopausal patients, both cohorts randomised
to receive either chemo- or radiotherapy. MET amplification was found in 8% of
the patients in both cohorts and HGF amplification in 7% and 6% of the patients
in the pre- and post-menopausal cohort, respectively. Met, phosphorylated Met
(pMet), and HGF protein expression was determined by immunohistochemistry in the 
pre-menopausal cohort. Met, pMet, and HGF was expressed in 33%, 53%, and 49% of
the tumours, respectively. MET amplification was associated with increased risk
of distant recurrence for patients receiving chemotherapy. For the pre-menopausal
patients, expression of cytoplasmic pMet and HGF significantly predicted benefit 
from radiotherapy in terms of loco-regional recurrence. Similar trends were seen 
for MET and HGF copy gain. In the post-menopausal cohort, no significant
association of benefit from radiotherapy with neither genes nor proteins was
found. The present results do not support that inhibition of Met prior to
radiotherapy would be favourable for pre-menopausal breast cancer, as previously 
suggested.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.9268 
PMCID: PMC5095065
PMID: 27175600 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


410. Genet Mol Res. 2016 Apr 29;15(2). doi: 10.4238/gmr.15027982.

Reference gene selection for gene expression studies in lily using quantitative
real-time PCR.

Zhang MF(1), Liu Q(1), Jia GX(1).

Author information: 
(1)Beijing Key Laboratory of Ornamental Plants Germplasm Innovation and Molecular
Breeding, National Engineering Research Center for Floriculture and College of
Landscape Architecture, Beijing Forestry University, Beijing, China.

Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) is an important
technology used to analyze gene-expression levels. Reference genes, which are
assumed to be expressed consistently across various developmental stages and in
different tissues, were selected for expression level analysis. Using digital
gene expression technology, we selected nine reference genes (18S, EF, CYCOL,
SAND, GAPDH, ACTIN, BHLH, TIP, and Clathrin) as candidate reference genes for
further study. Using three different analysis methods (GeNorm, NormFinder, and
BestKeeper), a total of 144 lily (Lilium x formolongi "Raizan 3") samples were
analyzed. The samples were collected from four different tissues under various
developmental stages. In addition, leaves treated with different plant hormones
were collected and analyzed. The data showed that the stability of the nine
reference genes differed among samples, but TIP, EF, Clathrin, and BHLH could be 
identified as the most stable genes overall. In addition, the relative expression
level of LfFT in different lily tissues with the competence to flower was also
analyzed to verify the selected reference genes. This study constitutes an
important source for selecting reference genes when analyzing the expression
patterns of flowering time and floral development regulation genes in lily
cultivars.

DOI: 10.4238/gmr.15027982 
PMID: 27173307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Br J Haematol. 2016 Aug;174(4):541-9. doi: 10.1111/bjh.14082. Epub 2016 May 12.

Comparative analysis between RQ-PCR and digital-droplet-PCR of
immunoglobulin/T-cell receptor gene rearrangements to monitor minimal residual
disease in acute lymphoblastic leukaemia.

Della Starza I(1), Nunes V(1), Cavalli M(1), De Novi LA(1), Ilari C(1), Apicella 
V(1), Vitale A(1), Testi AM(1), Del Giudice I(1), Chiaretti S(1), Foà R(1),
Guarini A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular Biotechnologies and Haematology, "Sapienza" University 
of Rome, Rome, Italy. (2)Department of Cellular Biotechnologies and Haematology, 
"Sapienza" University of Rome, Rome, Italy. guarini@bce.uniroma1.it.

Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RQ-PCR) is a standardized tool 
for minimal residual disease (MRD) monitoring in acute lymphoblastic leukaemia
(ALL). The applicability of this technology is limited by the need of a standard 
curve based on diagnostic DNA. The digital droplet PCR (ddPCR) technology has
been recently applied to various medical fields, but its use in MRD monitoring is
under investigation. In this study, we analysed 50 ALL cases by both methods in
two phases: in the first, we established analytical parameters to investigate the
applicability of this new technique; in the second, we analysed MRD levels in 141
follow-up (FU) samples to investigate the possible use of ddPCR for MRD
monitoring in ALL patients. We documented that ddPCR has sensitivity and accuracy
at least comparable to those of RQ-PCR. Overall, the two methods gave concordant 
results in 124 of the 141 analysed MRD samples (88%, P = 0·94). Discordant
results were found in 12% borderline cases. The results obtained prove that ddPCR
is a reliable method for MRD monitoring in ALL, with the advantage of quantifying
without the need of the calibration curves. Its application in a cohort of
patients with a longer FU will conclusively define its clinical predictive value.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/bjh.14082 
PMID: 27172403 


412. PLoS One. 2016 May 11;11(5):e0155009. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0155009.
eCollection 2016.

Could Digital PCR Be an Alternative as a Non-Invasive Prenatal Test for Trisomy
21: A Proof of Concept Study.

El Khattabi LA(1,)(2), Rouillac-Le Sciellour C(3), Le Tessier D(2), Luscan A(2), 
Coustier A(2), Porcher R(4), Bhouri R(2), Nectoux J(5), Sérazin V(3,)(6), Quibel 
T(7), Mandelbrot L(8), Tsatsaris V(9), Vialard F(3,)(6), Dupont JM(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)INSERM, U1016, Institut Cochin, CNRS UMR8104, Université Paris Descartes,
Paris, France. (2)Laboratoire de Cytogénétique, Hôpital Cochin-Maternité
Port-Royal, AP-HP, Paris, France. (3)Fédération de Génétique, CHI de Poissy St
Germain, Poissy, France. (4)Centre d'Epidémiologie Clinique, Hôtel Dieu, Paris,
France. (5)Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpital Cochin, Laboratoire de 
Biochimie et Génétique Moléculaire, Paris, France. (6)GIG, Faculté des Sciences
de la Santé, Université de Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines, Montigny le
bretonneux, France. (7)Département d'Obstétrique et de Gynécologie, CHI de Poissy
St Germain, Poissy, France. (8)Service de Gynécologie-Obstétrique, Hôpital Louis 
Mourier, Hôpitaux Universitaires Paris-Nord Val de Seine, Colombes, France;
Université Paris-Diderot, Paris, France. (9)Département d'Obstétrique et de
Gynécologie, Hôpital Cochin-Maternité Port-Royal, Université Paris Descartes,
Paris, France.

OBJECTIVE: NIPT for fetal aneuploidy by digital PCR has been hampered by the
large number of PCR reactions needed to meet statistical requirements, preventing
clinical application. Here, we designed an octoplex droplet digital PCR (ddPCR)
assay which allows increasing the number of available targets and thus overcomes 
statistical obstacles.
METHOD: After technical optimization of the multiplex PCR on mixtures of trisomic
and euploid DNA, we performed a validation study on samples of plasma DNA from
213 pregnant women. Molecular counting of circulating cell-free DNA was performed
using a mix of hydrolysis probes targeting chromosome 21 and a reference
chromosome.
RESULTS: The results of our validation experiments showed that ddPCR detected
trisomy 21 even when the sample's trisomic DNA content is as low as 5%. In a
validation study of plasma samples from 213 pregnant women, ddPCR discriminated
clearly between the trisomy 21 and the euploidy groups.
CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrate that digital PCR can meet the requirements
for non-invasive prenatal testing of trisomy 21. This approach is technically
simple, relatively cheap, easy to implement in a diagnostic setting and
compatible with ethical concerns regarding access to nucleotide sequence
information. These advantages make it a potential technique of choice for
population-wide screening for trisomy 21 in pregnant women.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0155009 
PMCID: PMC4864235
PMID: 27167625 


413. Lab Chip. 2016 May 24;16(11):2044-9. doi: 10.1039/c6lc00265j.

Nano-liter droplet libraries from a pipette: step emulsificator that stabilizes
droplet volume against variation in flow rate.

Dutka F(1), Opalski AS(2), Garstecki P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physical Chemistry, Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw, Poland.
garst@ichf.edu.pl and Institute of Theoretical Physics, Faculty of Physics,
University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland. (2)Institute of Physical Chemistry, Polish 
Academy of Sciences, Warsaw, Poland. garst@ichf.edu.pl.

Many modern analytical assays, for example, droplet digital PCR, or screening of 
the properties of single cells or single mutated genes require splitting a liquid
sample into a number of small (typically ca. nano-liter in volume) independent
compartments or droplets. This calls for a method that would allow splitting
small (microliter) samples of liquid into libraries of nano-liter droplets
without any dead volume or waste. Step emulsification allows for facile protocols
that require delivery of only the sample liquid, yet they typically exhibit
dependence of the droplet size on the rate at which the sample is injected. Here,
we report a novel microfluidic junction that reduces the dependence of the volume
of droplets on the rate of injection. We also demonstrate generation of tightly
monodisperse nanoliter droplets by introduction of solely the dispersed phase
into the system from an automatic pipette. The method presented here can readily 
be used and can replace the sophisticated devices typically used to generate
libraries of nano-liter droplets from liquid samples.

DOI: 10.1039/c6lc00265j 
PMID: 27161389 


414. PLoS One. 2016 May 5;11(5):e0153317. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0153317.
eCollection 2016.

Measuring Digital PCR Quality: Performance Parameters and Their Optimization.

Lievens A(1), Jacchia S(1), Kagkli D(1), Savini C(1), Querci M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Biology and Genomics Unit, European Commission - Joint Research
Centre, Institute for Health and Consumer Protection, 21027 Ispra (VA), Italy.

Digital PCR is rapidly being adopted in the field of DNA-based food analysis. The
direct, absolute quantification it offers makes it an attractive technology for
routine analysis of food and feed samples for their composition, possible GMO
content, and compliance with labelling requirements. However, assessing the
performance of dPCR assays is not yet well established. This article introduces
three straightforward parameters based on statistical principles that allow users
to evaluate if their assays are robust. In addition, we present post-run
evaluation criteria to check if quantification was accurate. Finally, we evaluate
the usefulness of Poisson confidence intervals and present an alternative
strategy to better capture the variability in the analytical chain.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0153317 
PMCID: PMC4858304
PMID: 27149415 


415. Expert Rev Mol Diagn. 2016 Jul;16(7):751-5. doi: 10.1080/14737159.2016.1184974.
Epub 2016 May 17.

The role of ctDNA detection and the potential of the liquid biopsy for breast
cancer monitoring.

Openshaw MR(1), Page K(1), Fernandez-Garcia D(1), Guttery D(1), Shaw JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Cancer Studies , University of Leicester, Robert Kilpatrick
Clinical Sciences Building, Leicester Royal Infirmary , Leicester , UK.

INTRODUCTION: Recent advances in deep amplicon sequencing have enabled rapid
assessment of somatic mutations and structural changes in multiple cancer genes
in DNA isolated from tumour tissues and circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA). This
cfDNA is under investigation as a 'liquid biopsy' for the real time monitoring of
patients with cancer in a growing number of research studies and clinical trials.
AREAS COVERED: Here we will provide a brief overview of the potential clinical
utility of cfDNA profiling for detection and monitoring of patients with breast
cancer. The review was conducted in English using PubMed and search terms
including 'breast cancer', 'plasma DNA', 'circulating cell free DNA' and
'circulating tumour DNA'. Expert commentary: Liquid biopsies through circulating 
tumor DNA (ctDNA) enable monitoring of patients with breast cancer. The challenge
ahead will be to incorporate cfDNA mutation profiling into routine clinical
practice to provide patients with the most appropriate and timely treatment.

DOI: 10.1080/14737159.2016.1184974 
PMID: 27144417 


416. Biosens Bioelectron. 2016 Oct 15;84:1-6. doi: 10.1016/j.bios.2016.04.084. Epub
2016 Apr 27.

High-sensitivity assay for Hg (II) and Ag (I) ion detection: A new class of
droplet digital PCR logic gates for an intelligent DNA calculator.

Cheng N(1), Zhu P(1), Xu Y(2), Huang K(3), Luo Y(4), Yang Z(2), Xu W(5).

Author information: 
(1)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Food Nutrition and Human Health,
College of Food Science & Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural University,
PR China. (2)Beijing Laboratory for Food Quality and Safety, College of Food
Science and Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing, PR
China. (3)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Food Nutrition and Human Health,
College of Food Science & Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural University,
PR China; Beijing Laboratory for Food Quality and Safety, College of Food Science
and Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing, PR China.
Electronic address: hkl009@163.com. (4)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for
Food Nutrition and Human Health, College of Food Science & Nutritional
Engineering, China Agricultural University, PR China; Beijing Laboratory for Food
Quality and Safety, College of Food Science and Nutritional Engineering, China
Agricultural University, Beijing, PR China. (5)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center
for Food Nutrition and Human Health, College of Food Science & Nutritional
Engineering, China Agricultural University, PR China; Beijing Laboratory for Food
Quality and Safety, College of Food Science and Nutritional Engineering, China
Agricultural University, Beijing, PR China. Electronic address:
xuwentao@cau.edu.cn.

The first example of droplet digital PCR logic gates ("YES", "OR" and "AND") for 
Hg (II) and Ag (I) ion detection has been constructed based on two amplification 
events triggered by a metal-ion-mediated base mispairing (T-Hg(II)-T and
C-Ag(I)-C). In this work, Hg(II) and Ag(I) were used as the input, and the "true"
hierarchical colors or "false" green were the output. Through accurate molecular 
recognition and high sensitivity amplification, positive droplets were generated 
by droplet digital PCR and viewed as the basis of hierarchical digital signals.
Based on this principle, YES gate for Hg(II) (or Ag(I)) detection, OR gate for
Hg(II) or Ag(I) detection and AND gate for Hg(II) and Ag(I) detection were
developed, and their sensitively and selectivity were reported. The results
indicate that the ddPCR logic system developed based on the different indicators 
for Hg(II) and Ag(I) ions provides a useful strategy for developing advanced
detection methods, which are promising for multiplex metal ion analysis and
intelligent DNA calculator design applications.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bios.2016.04.084 
PMID: 27140307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. PLoS One. 2016 May 2;11(5):e0154836. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0154836.
eCollection 2016.

Alteration of Gene Expression, DNA Methylation, and Histone Methylation in Free
Radical Scavenging Networks in Adult Mouse Hippocampus following Fetal Alcohol
Exposure.

Chater-Diehl EJ(1), Laufer BI(1), Castellani CA(1), Alberry BL(1), Singh SM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Genetics Unit, Department of Biology, Western University, London,
Ontario, Canada.

The molecular basis of Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASD) is poorly
understood; however, epigenetic and gene expression changes have been implicated.
We have developed a mouse model of FASD characterized by learning and memory
impairment and persistent gene expression changes. Epigenetic marks may maintain 
expression changes over a mouse's lifetime, an area few have explored. Here, mice
were injected with saline or ethanol on postnatal days four and seven. At 70 days
of age gene expression microarray, methylated DNA immunoprecipitation microarray,
H3K4me3 and H3K27me3 chromatin immunoprecipitation microarray were performed.
Following extensive pathway analysis of the affected genes, we identified the top
affected gene expression pathway as "Free radical scavenging". We confirmed six
of these changes by droplet digital PCR including the caspase Casp3 and Wnt
transcription factor Tcf7l2. The top pathway for all methylation-affected genes
was "Peroxisome biogenesis"; we confirmed differential DNA methylation in the
Acca1 thiolase promoter. Altered methylation and gene expression in oxidative
stress pathways in the adult hippocampus suggests a novel interface between
epigenetic and oxidative stress mechanisms in FASD.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0154836 
PMCID: PMC4852908
PMID: 27136348 


418. Clin Biochem. 2016 Dec;49(18):1354-1360. doi: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2016.03.012. 
Epub 2016 Apr 27.

Comparative analysis of circulating tumor DNA stability In K3EDTA, Streck, and
CellSave blood collection tubes.

Kang Q(1), Henry NL(1), Paoletti C(1), Jiang H(2), Vats P(3), Chinnaiyan AM(4),
Hayes DF(1), Merajver SD(5), Rae JM(1), Tewari M(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Hematology/Oncology, University
of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. (2)Department of Biostatistics, School of Public
Health, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. (3)Michigan Center for
Translational Pathology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. (4)Michigan 
Center for Translational Pathology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA;
Department of Pathology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA; Department
of Urology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA; Comprehensive Cancer
Center, University of Michigan Health System, Ann Arbor, MI, USA; Howard Hughes
Medical Institute, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. (5)Department of Internal Medicine,
Division of Hematology/Oncology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA;
Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, MI, USA. (6)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of
Hematology/Oncology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA; Department of
Biomedical Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA; Center for
Computational Medicine and Bioinformatics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI,
USA; Biointerfaces Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
Electronic address: mtewari@med.umich.edu.

OBJECTIVES: Optimal conditions for blood collection for circulating tumor DNA
(ctDNA) are still being developed. Although both Streck and EDTA tubes are
commonly used, their ability to stabilize ctDNA as a function of time and
temperature post-collection has not been thoroughly studied. Additionally, the
potential utility of CellSave tubes (commonly used for circulating tumor cell)
for ctDNA measurements has not been studied.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Blood was collected into Streck, EDTA, and CellSave tubes
from ten patients with metastatic breast cancer enrolled in the MI-ONCOSEQ tumor 
sequencing program at the University of Michigan and kept either on ice or at
room temperature until plasma isolation. Plasma was processed after 2, 6, and 48h
post-collection. We used droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) to quantify plasma ctDNA and
wild-type DNA for six patients who had tumor tissue mutations represented in
commercially available ddPCR assays.
RESULTS: ctDNA abundance was similar and stable for up to 6h in all tube types,
and there was no effect of storage temperature on the yield for Streck and EDTA
tubes. After 48h, however, one out of four patients with detectable ctDNA showed 
a ~50% decline in ctDNA in the EDTA tube, and three out of six patients showed a 
2-3-fold increase in wild-type DNA in the EDTA tube.
CONCLUSIONS: Streck, EDTA, and CellSave tubes showed similar performance in
preserving ctDNA for up to 6h before plasma isolation. Streck and CellSave tubes 
more consistently stabilized ctDNA and wild-type DNA at 48h than EDTA tubes.

Copyright Â© 2016 The Canadian Society of Clinical Chemists. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2016.03.012 
PMID: 27129799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Ann Clin Biochem. 2017 Jan;54(1):86-91. doi: 10.1177/0004563216643970. Epub 2016 
Sep 28.

Highly sensitive stool DNA testing of Fusobacterium nucleatum as a marker for
detection of colorectal tumours in a Japanese population.

Suehiro Y(1), Sakai K(1), Nishioka M(2), Hashimoto S(3), Takami T(3), Higaki
S(4), Shindo Y(5), Hazama S(5), Oka M(5), Nagano H(5), Sakaida I(2), Yamasaki
T(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Oncology and Laboratory Medicine, Yamaguchi University
Graduate School of Medicine, Ube, Japan. (2)2 Division of Laboratory, Yamaguchi
University Hospital, Ube, Yamaguchi, Japan. (3)3 Department of Gastroenterology
and Hepatology, Yamaguchi University Graduate School of Medicine, Ube, Japan.
(4)4 Department of Gastroenterology, Sentohiru Hospital, Ube, Japan. (5)5
Department of Digestive Surgery and Surgical Oncology, Yamaguchi University
Graduate School of Medicine, Ube, Japan.

Background Accumulating evidence shows an over-abundance of Fusobacterium
nucleatum in colorectal tumour tissues. Although stool DNA testing of
Fusobacterium nucleatum might be a potential marker for the detection of
colorectal tumours, the difficulty in detecting Fusobacterium nucleatum in stool 
by conventional methods prevented further explorations. Therefore, we developed a
droplet digital polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay for detecting Fusobacterium
nucleatum in stool and investigated its clinical utility in the management of
colorectal tumours in a Japanese population. Methods Feces were collected from 60
healthy subjects (control group) and from 11 patients with colorectal
non-advanced adenomas (non-advanced adenoma group), 19 patients with colorectal
advanced adenoma/carcinoma in situ (advanced adenoma/carcinoma in situ (CIS)
group) and 158 patients with colorectal cancer of stages I to IV (colorectal
cancer group). Absolute copy numbers of Fusobacterium nucleatum were measured by 
droplet digital PCR. Results The median copy number of Fusobacterium nucleatum
was 17.5 in the control group, 311 in the non-advanced adenoma group, 122 in the 
advanced adenoma/CIS group, and 317 in the colorectal cancer group. In comparison
with that in the control group, the Fusobacterium nucleatum level was
significantly higher in the non-advanced adenoma group, the advanced adenoma/CIS 
group and the colorectal cancer group. Conclusions This study illustrates the
potential of stool DNA testing of Fusobacterium nucleatum by droplet digital PCR 
to detect individuals with colorectal tumours in a Japanese population.

DOI: 10.1177/0004563216643970 
PMID: 27126270  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Am J Med Genet C Semin Med Genet. 2016 Jun;172(2):163-70. doi:
10.1002/ajmg.c.31495. Epub 2016 Apr 29.

NIPBL expression levels in CdLS probands as a predictor of mutation type and
phenotypic severity.

Kaur M, Mehta D, Noon SE, Deardorff MA, Zhang Z, Krantz ID.

Cornelia de Lange syndrome (CdLS) is a rare, genetically heterogeneous
multisystem developmental disorder with a high degree of variability in its
clinical presentation. Approximately 65% of probands harbor mutations in genes
that encode core components (SMC1A, SMC3, and RAD21) or regulators (NIPBL, HDAC8)
of the cohesin complex, of which mutations in NIPBL are the most common. Cohesin 
plays a canonical role in sister chromatid cohesion during cell division and
non-canonical roles in DNA repair, stem cell maintenance and differentiation, and
regulation of gene expression. Disruption of the latter role seems to be the
major contributor to the underlying molecular pathogenesis of CdLS. NIPBL is
required for loading and unloading the cohesin complex onto chromosomes. The
expression levels of NIPBL itself appear to be tightly regulated and highly
evolutionarily conserved. Droplet digital PCR was used to quantify NIPBL mRNA
expression levels with high precision from a cohort of 37 samples (NIPBL, SMC1A, 
SMC3, and HDAC8 mutation positive probands and negative control). Probands with
severe forms of CdLS or severe mutation types were found to have lower levels of 
NIPBL in comparison to phenotypically milder patients and controls. Levels of
NIPBL also correlated with the presence of mutations in different CdLS-causing
genes. The data suggests that NIPBL levels are closely correlated with the
severity of CdLS and with specific causative genes and types of mutations. ddPCR 
may provide a tool to assist in diagnostic approaches to CdLS, for genetic
counseling and prognosis, and for monitoring potential therapeutic modalities in 
the future. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.c.31495 
PMID: 27125329 


421. Sci Rep. 2016 Apr 28;6:25186. doi: 10.1038/srep25186.

Digital PCR methods improve detection sensitivity and measurement precision of
low abundance mtDNA deletions.

Belmonte FR(1), Martin JL(1), Frescura K(2), Damas J(3), Pereira F(4),
Tarnopolsky MA(2), Kaufman BA(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Division of Cardiology, Center
for Metabolism and Mitochondrial Medicine and Vascular Medicine Institute,
Pittsburgh, PA, 15261, United States. (2)Departments of Pediatrics and Medicine, 
McMaster University Medical Center, Hamilton, ON, L8N 3Z5, Canada. (3)Department 
of Comparative Biomedical Sciences, Royal Veterinary College, London, UK.
(4)Interdisciplinary Centre of Marine and Environmental Research (CIIMAR),
University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.

Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutations are a common cause of primary mitochondrial
disorders, and have also been implicated in a broad collection of conditions,
including aging, neurodegeneration, and cancer. Prevalent among these pathogenic 
variants are mtDNA deletions, which show a strong bias for the loss of sequence
in the major arc between, but not including, the heavy and light strand origins
of replication. Because individual mtDNA deletions can accumulate focally, occur 
with multiple mixed breakpoints, and in the presence of normal mtDNA sequences,
methods that detect broad-spectrum mutations with enhanced sensitivity and
limited costs have both research and clinical applications. In this study, we
evaluated semi-quantitative and digital PCR-based methods of mtDNA deletion
detection using double-stranded reference templates or biological samples. Our
aim was to describe key experimental assay parameters that will enable the
analysis of low levels or small differences in mtDNA deletion load during disease
progression, with limited false-positive detection. We determined that the
digital PCR method significantly improved mtDNA deletion detection sensitivity
through absolute quantitation, improved precision and reduced assay standard
error.

DOI: 10.1038/srep25186 
PMCID: PMC4848546
PMID: 27122135 


422. PLoS One. 2016 Apr 27;11(4):e0154430. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0154430.
eCollection 2016.

Tumor Content Chart-Assisted HER2/CEP17 Digital PCR Analysis of Gastric Cancer
Biopsy Specimens.

Matsusaka K(1,)(2), Ishikawa S(3,)(4), Nakayama A(3), Ushiku T(3), Nishimoto
A(3), Urabe M(2,)(3,)(5), Kaneko N(1), Kunita A(3), Kaneda A(2), Aburatani H(6), 
Fujishiro M(7), Seto Y(5), Fukayama M(1,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Diagnostic Pathology, the University of Tokyo Hospital, Tokyo,
Japan. (2)Department of Molecular Oncology, Graduate School of Medicine, Chiba
University, Chiba, Japan. (3)Department of Pathology, Graduate School of
Medicine, the University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan. (4)Department of Genomic
Pathology, Medical Research Institute Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Tokyo,
Japan. (5)Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, the University of Tokyo
Hospital, Tokyo, Japan. (6)Genome Science Division, Research Center for Advanced 
Science and Technology, the University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan. (7)Department of
Endoscopy and Endoscopic Surgery, the University of Tokyo Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.

Evaluating HER2 gene amplification is an essential component of therapeutic
decision-making for advanced or metastatic gastric cancer. A simple method that
is applicable to small, formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded biopsy specimens is
desirable as an adjunct to or as a substitute for currently used HER2
immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization protocols. In this study, we
developed a microfluidics-based digital PCR method for determining HER2 and
chromosome 17 centromere (CEP17) copy numbers and estimating tumor content ratio 
(TCR). The HER2/CEP17 ratio is determined by three variables-TCR and absolute
copy numbers of HER2 and CEP17-by examining tumor cells; only the ratio of the
latter two can be obtained by digital PCR using the whole specimen without
purifying tumor cells. TCR was determined by semi-automatic image analysis. We
developed a Tumor Content chart, which is a plane of rectangular coordinates
consisting of HER2/CEP17 digital PCR data and TCR that delineates amplified,
non-amplified, and equivocal areas. By applying this method, 44 clinical gastric 
cancer biopsy samples were classified as amplified (n = 13), non-amplified (n =
25), or equivocal (n = 6). By comparison, 11 samples were positive, 11 were
negative, and 22 were equivocally immunohistochemistry. Thus, our novel method
reduced the number of equivocal samples from 22 to 6, thereby obviating the need 
for confirmation by fluorescence or dual-probe in situ hybridization to < 30% of 
cases. Tumor content chart-assisted digital PCR analysis is also applicable to
multiple sites in surgically resected tissues. These results indicate that this
analysis is a useful alternative to HER2 immunohistochemistry in gastric cancers 
that can serve as a basis for the automated evaluation of HER2 status.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0154430 
PMCID: PMC4847903
PMID: 27119558  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Cancer Sci. 2016 Jul;107(7):936-43. doi: 10.1111/cas.12959. Epub 2016 Jun 13.

Utility of KRAS mutation detection using circulating cell-free DNA from patients 
with colorectal cancer.

Yamada T(1), Iwai T(1), Takahashi G(1), Kan H(1), Koizumi M(1), Matsuda A(1),
Shinji S(1), Yamagishi A(1), Yokoyama Y(1), Tatsuguchi A(2), Kawagoe T(2), Kitano
S(3), Nakayama M(3), Matsumoto S(1), Uchida E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastrointestinal and Hepato-Biliary-Pancreatic Surgery, Nippon
Medical School, Tokyo, Japan. (2)Department of Gastroenterology, Nippon Medical
School, Tokyo, Japan. (3)Technical Research Institute, Toppan Printing Co. Ltd., 
Saitama, Japan.

In this study, we evaluated the clinical utility of detecting KRAS mutations in
circulating cell-free (ccf)DNA of metastatic colorectal cancer patients. We
prospectively recruited 94 metastatic colorectal cancer patients. Circulating
cell-free DNA was extracted from plasma samples and analyzed for the presence of 
seven KRAS point mutations. Using the Invader Plus assay with peptide nucleic
acid clamping method and digital PCR, KRAS mutations were detected in the ccfDNA 
in 35 of 39 patients previously determined to have primary tumors containing KRAS
mutations using the Luminex method, and in 5 of 55 patients with tumors
containing wild-type KRAS. Curative resection was undertaken in 7 of 34 patients 
with primary and ccfDNA KRAS mutations, resulting in the disappearance of the
mutation from the cell-free DNA in five of seven patients. Three of these
patients had tumor recurrence and KRAS mutations in their ccfDNA reappeared.
Epidermal growth factor receptor blockade was administered to 24 of the KRAS
tumor wild-type patients. Of the 24 patients with wild-type KRAS in their primary
tumors, three patients had KRAS mutations in their ccfDNA and did not respond to 
treatment with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) blockade. We also detected
a new KRAS mutation in five patients during chemotherapy with EGFR blockade,
before disease progression was detectable with imaging. The detection of KRAS
mutations in ccfDNA is an attractive approach for predicting both treatment
response and acquired resistance to EGFR blockade, and for detecting disease
recurrence.

© 2016 The Authors. Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd 
on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.

DOI: 10.1111/cas.12959 
PMCID: PMC4946708
PMID: 27116474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Phytopathology. 2016 Oct;106(10):1223-1230. Epub 2016 Jul 27.

Phylogeny of Geminivirus Coat Protein Sequences and Digital PCR Aid in
Identifying Spissistilus festinus as a Vector of Grapevine red blotch-associated 
virus.

Bahder BW(1), Zalom FG(1), Jayanth M(1), Sudarshana MR(1).

Author information: 
(1)First, third, and fourth authors: U.S. Department of Agriculture-Agriculture
Research Services, Department of Plant Pathology, University of California, One
Shields Ave., Davis 95616; and first and second authors: Department of Entomology
and Nematology, University of California, One Shields Ave., Davis 95616.

Grapevine red blotch-associated virus (GRBaV) is a single-stranded DNA virus,
proposed to be a member of the family Geminiviridae, and is associated with
grapevines showing red blotch symptoms in North America. The existence of the
virus was reported in 2012, and subsequently detected in grapevines in major
grape production regions. We investigated if a vector exists that can transmit
GRBaV in vineyards. Phylogenetic analysis of the predicted amino acid sequence of
coat protein (CP) of GRBaV with the CP of 23 geminiviruses representing all seven
genera of the family Geminiviridae revealed that GRBaV-CP was most similar to
that of Tomato pseudo-curly top virus, a geminivirus known to be transmitted by a
treehopper (Membracidae), a family that is closely related to leafhoppers
(Cicadellidae). To identify vectors of GRBaV, hemipteran species within and
nearby wine grape vineyards where virus spread was suspected were collected and
transmission assays were conducted. Among the species tested, the three-cornered 
alfalfa hopper Spissistilus festinus (Hemiptera: Membracidae) was able to both
acquire the virus from a grapevine infected with GRBaV and transmit the virus to 
healthy grapevines in the laboratory. In commercial vineyards, lateral shoots of 
grapevines girdled due to feeding injury by the adult three-cornered alfalfa
hopper also tested positive for the virus using digital PCR. These findings
represent an important step in understanding the biology of GRBaV and develop
management guidelines.

DOI: 10.1094/PHYTO-03-16-0125-FI 
PMID: 27111804 


425. Leukemia. 2016 Sep;30(9):1844-52. doi: 10.1038/leu.2016.90. Epub 2016 Apr 25.

Development and evaluation of a secondary reference panel for BCR-ABL1
quantification on the International Scale.

Cross NC(1,)(2), White HE(1,)(2), Ernst T(3), Welden L(4), Dietz C(5), Saglio
G(6), Mahon FX(7), Wong CC(8), Zheng D(8), Wong S(8), Wang SS(8), Akiki S(9),
Albano F(10), Andrikovics H(11,)(12), Anwar J(13), Balatzenko G(14), Bendit
I(15), Beveridge J(16), Boeckx N(17,)(18), Cerveira N(19), Cheng SM(20), Colomer 
D(21), Czurda S(22), Daraio F(6), Dulucq S(23), Eggen L(24), El Housni H(25),
Gerrard G(26), Gniot M(27), Izzo B(28,)(29), Jacquin D(30), Janssen JJ(31),
Jeromin S(32), Jurcek T(33), Kim DW(34), Machova-Polakova K(35), Martinez-Lopez
J(36), McBean M(37), Mesanovic S(38), Mitterbauer-Hohendanner G(39), Mobtaker
H(30), Mozziconacci MJ(40), Pajič T(41), Pallisgaard N(42), Panagiotidis P(43),
Press RD(44), Qin YZ(45), Radich J(46), Sacha T(47), Touloumenidou T(48), Waits
P(49), Wilkinson E(50), Zadro R(51), Müller MC(5), Hochhaus A(3), Branford
S(4,)(52,)(53,)(54).

Author information: 
(1)Wessex Regional Genetics Laboratory, Salisbury NHS Foundation Trust,
Salisbury, UK. (2)Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton, Southampton,
UK. (3)Department of Hematology/Oncology, Universitätsklinikum Jena, Jena,
Germany. (4)Department of Genetics and Molecular Pathology, Centre for Cancer
Biology, SA Pathology, Adelaide, SA, Australia. (5)III. Medizinische Klinik,
Medizinische Fakultät Mannheim, Universität Heidelberg, Mannheim, Germany.
(6)Department of Clinical and Biological Sciences, San Luigi Hospital, University
of Turin, Orbassano, Italy. (7)Bergonie Institute Cancer Center Bordeaux, INSERM 
U1218, University of Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France. (8)Novartis Pharmaceuticals
Corporation, East Hanover, NJ, USA. (9)West Midlands Regional Genetics
Laboratory, Birmingham, UK. (10)Department of Hematology, University of Bari,
Bari, Italy. (11)Laboratory of Molecular Diagnostics, Hungarian National Blood
Transfusion Service, Budapest, Hungary. (12)Department of Pathophysiology,
Semmelweis University, Budapest, Hungary. (13)King's College Hospital London,
London, UK. (14)National Specialized Hospital for Active Treatment of
Hematological Diseases, Sofia, Bulgaria. (15)Laboratorio de Biologia Tumoral,
Disciplina de Hematologia do HC-FMUSP, São Paulo, Brazil. (16)PathWest Laboratory
Medicine WA, Department of Haematology, Fiona Stanley Hospital, Perth, WA,
Australia. (17)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University Hospitals Leuven,
Leuven, Belgium. (18)Department of Oncology, KUL, Leuven, Belgium. (19)Department
of Genetics, Portuguese Oncology Institute, Porto, Portugal. (20)Department of
Hematology and Oncology, Quest Diagnostics Nichols Institute, San Juan
Capistrano, CA, USA. (21)Hematopathology Unit, Hospital Clinic, IDIBAPS,
Barcelona, Spain. (22)Division of Molecular Microbiology, Children's Cancer
Research Institute, Vienna, Austria. (23)Laboratoire Hematologie, Centre
Hospitalier Universitaire de Bordeaux, Universite Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France.
(24)Laboratory of Molecular Pathology, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(25)Clinique de Genetique Oncologique-Service de genetique, Hopital Erasme,
Brussels, Belgium. (26)Imperial Molecular Pathology, Hammersmith Hospital,
London, UK. (27)Department of Hematology and Bone Marrow Transplantation, Poznan 
University of Medical Sciences, Poznan, Poland. (28)Department of Clinical
Medicine and Surgery, University 'Federico II' of Naples, Naples, Italy.
(29)CEINGE - Biotecnologie Avanzate, Naples, Italy. (30)Genoptix, Inc., Carlsbad,
CA, USA. (31)Department of Hematology and Molecular Diagnostics, VU University
Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. (32)MLL Munich Leukemia Laboratory,
Munich, Germany. (33)Center of Molecular Biology and Gene Therapy, Department of 
Internal Medicine-Hematology and Oncology, Masaryk University and University
Hospital Brno, Brno, Czech Republic. (34)Seoul St Mary's Hospital, Leukemia
Research Institute, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.
(35)Department of Molecular Genetics, Institute of Hematology and Blood
Transfusion, Prague, Czech Republic. (36)Department of Hematology, Hospital
Universitario 12 de Octubre, Universidad Complutense, CNIO, Madrid, Spain.
(37)Division of Cancer Medicine, Department of Pathology, Peter MacCallum Cancer 
Centre, East Melbourne, VIC, Australia. (38)Pathology Department, University
Clinical Center Tuzla, Tuzla, Bosnia and Herzegovina. (39)Department of
Laboratory Medicine, Division of Medical and Chemical Laboratory Diagnostics,
Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria. (40)Departement de Biopathologie, 
Institut Paoli-Calmettes, Marseille, France. (41)Specialized Haematology
Laboratory, Department of Haematology, University Medical Centre Ljubljana,
Ljubljana, Slovenia. (42)Department of Surgical Pathology, Zealand University
Hospital, Roskilde, Denmark. (43)Hematology Unit, First Department of Internal
Medicine, Laiko Hospital, University of Athens, Athens, Greece. (44)Department of
Pathology and Knight Cancer Institute, Oregon Health and Science University,
Portland, OR, USA. (45)Peking University People's Hospital, Peking University
Institute of Hematology, Beijing, China. (46)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research
Center, Seattle, WA, USA. (47)Chair and Department of Hematology, Jagiellonian
University, Kraków, Poland. (48)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Hematology
Department and HCT Unit, G. Papanicolaou Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece.
(49)Bristol Genetics Laboratory, Bristol, UK. (50)HMDS, Leeds Teaching Hospitals,
Leeds, UK. (51)Faculty of Pharmacy and Biochemistry and University Hospital
Center Zagreb, University of Zagreb, Zagreb, Croatia. (52)School of Pharmacy and 
Medical Science, University of South Australia, Adelaide, SA, Australia.
(53)School of Medicine, University of Adelaide, SA, Adelaide, Australia.
(54)School of Molecular and Biomedical Science, University of Adelaide, Adelaide,
SA, Australia.

Molecular monitoring of chronic myeloid leukemia patients using robust BCR-ABL1
tests standardized to the International Scale (IS) is key to proper disease
management, especially when treatment cessation is considered. Most laboratories 
currently use a time-consuming sample exchange process with reference
laboratories for IS calibration. A World Health Organization (WHO) BCR-ABL1
reference panel was developed (MR(1)-MR(4)), but access to the material is
limited. In this study, we describe the development of the first cell-based
secondary reference panel that is traceable to and faithfully replicates the WHO 
panel, with an additional MR(4.5) level. The secondary panel was calibrated to IS
using digital PCR with ABL1, BCR and GUSB as reference genes and evaluated by 44 
laboratories worldwide. Interestingly, we found that >40% of BCR-ABL1 assays
showed signs of inadequate optimization such as poor linearity and suboptimal PCR
efficiency. Nonetheless, when optimized sample inputs were used, >60%
demonstrated satisfactory IS accuracy, precision and/or MR(4.5) sensitivity, and 
58% obtained IS conversion factors from the secondary reference concordant with
their current values. Correlation analysis indicated no significant alterations
in %BCR-ABL1 results caused by different assay configurations. More assays
achieved good precision and/or sensitivity than IS accuracy, indicating the need 
for better IS calibration mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1038/leu.2016.90 
PMCID: PMC5240017
PMID: 27109508 

Conflict of interest statement: This study was designed and funded by Novartis
Pharmaceuticals Corporation. CW, DZ, SW and SSW are employed by Novartis
Pharmaceuticals Corporation. None of the co-authors, participating laboratories
or institutions received any payments for participating in this study. All
authors have read and agreed with the contents of the manuscript. All other
authors declare no conflicts of interest.


426. BMC Genomics. 2016 Apr 23;17:299. doi: 10.1186/s12864-016-2619-0.

Absolute quantification reveals the stable transmission of a high copy number
variant linked to autoinflammatory disease.

Olsson M(1), Kierczak M(2), Karlsson Å(2), Jabłońska J(2), Leegwater P(3),
Koltookian M(4), Abadie J(5), De Citres CD(6), Thomas A(6), Hedhammar Å(7),
Tintle L(8), Lindblad-Toh K(2,)(4), Meadows JR(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Rheumatology Unit, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm,
Sweden. (2)Department of Medical Biochemistry and Microbiology, Science for Life 
Laboratory, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden. (3)Department of Clinical
Sciences of Companion Animals, Utrecht University, Utrecht, Netherlands. (4)Broad
Institute of MIT and Harvard, Boston, MA, USA. (5)LUNAM University, Oniris,
AMaROC Unit, Nantes, F-44307, France. (6)ANTAGENE Animal Genetics Laboratory, La 
Tour de Salvagny, Lyon, 69, France. (7)Department of Clinical Sciences, Swedish
University of Agricultural Sciences, Uppsala, Sweden. (8)Wurtsboro Veterinary
Clinic, Wurtsboro, New York, USA. (9)Department of Medical Biochemistry and
Microbiology, Science for Life Laboratory, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
jennifer.meadows@imbim.uu.se.

BACKGROUND: Dissecting the role copy number variants (CNVs) play in disease
pathogenesis is directly reliant on accurate methods for quantification. The
Shar-Pei dog breed is predisposed to a complex autoinflammatory disease with
numerous clinical manifestations. One such sign, recurrent fever, was previously 
shown to be significantly associated with a novel, but unstable CNV (CNV_16.1).
Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) offers a new mechanism for CNV detection via absolute
quantification with the promise of added precision and reliability. The aim of
this study was to evaluate ddPCR in relation to quantitative PCR (qPCR) and to
assess the suitability of the favoured method as a genetic test for Shar-Pei
Autoinflammatory Disease (SPAID).
RESULTS: One hundred and ninety-six individuals were assayed using both PCR
methods at two CNV positions (CNV_14.3 and CNV_16.1). The digital method revealed
a striking result. The CNVs did not follow a continuum of alleles as previously
reported, rather the alleles were stable and pedigree analysis showed they
adhered to Mendelian segregation. Subsequent analysis of ddPCR case/control data 
confirmed that both CNVs remained significantly associated with the subphenotype 
of fever, but also to the encompassing SPAID complex (p < 0.001). In addition,
harbouring CNV_16.1 allele five (CNV_16.1|5) resulted in a four-fold increase in 
the odds for SPAID (p < 0.001). The inclusion of a genetic marker for CNV_16.1 in
a genome-wide association test revealed that this variant explained 9.7 % of
genetic variance and 25.8 % of the additive genetic heritability of this
autoinflammatory disease.
CONCLUSIONS: This data shows the utility of the ddPCR method to resolve cryptic
copy number inheritance patterns and so open avenues of genetic testing. In its
current form, the ddPCR test presented here could be used in canine breeding to
reduce the number of homozygote CNV_16.1|5 individuals and thereby to reduce the 
prevalence of disease in this breed.

DOI: 10.1186/s12864-016-2619-0 
PMCID: PMC4841964
PMID: 27107962  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. BMC Genomics. 2016 Apr 23;17:303. doi: 10.1186/s12864-016-2616-3.

Transcriptome and metabolome analysis in shoot and root of Valeriana fauriei.

Park YJ(1), Li X(1), Noh SJ(2), Kim JK(3), Lim SS(4), Park NI(5), Kim S(6), Kim
YB(7), Kim YO(7), Lee SW(7), Arasu MV(8), Al-Dhabi NA(8), Park SU(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Crop Science, Chungnam National University, 99 Daehak-ro,
Yuseong-gu, Daejeon, 305-764, Korea. (2)Code Division, Insilicogen Inc., Suwon,
Gyeonggi-do, 441-813, Korea. (3)Division of Life Sciences and Bio-Resource and
Environmental Center, Incheon National University, Yeonsu-gu, Incheon, 406-772,
Korea. (4)Department of Food and Nutrition and Institute of Natural Medicine,
Hallym University, Chuncheon, 200-702, Korea. (5)Deptartment of Plant Science,
Gangneung-Wonju National University, 7 Jukheon-gil, Gangneung-si, Gangwon-do,
210-702, Korea. (6)Biological and Genetic Resources Assessment Division, National
Institute of Biological Resources, Incheon, 404-170, Korea. (7)Department of
Herbal Crop Research, National Institute of Horticultural and Herbal Science
(NIHHS), Rural Development Administration (RDA), Bisanro 92, Eumseong, Chungbuk, 
369-873, Republic of Korea. (8)Department of Botany and Microbiology, Addiriyah
Chair for Environmental Studies, College of Science, King Saud University, P. O. 
Box 2455, Riyadh, 11451, Saudi Arabia. (9)Department of Crop Science, Chungnam
National University, 99 Daehak-ro, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon, 305-764, Korea.
supark@cnu.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND: Valeriana fauriei is commonly used in the treatment of cardiovascular
diseases in many countries. Several constituents with various pharmacological
properties are present in the roots of Valeriana species. Although many
researches on V. fauriei have been done since a long time, further studies in the
discipline make a limit due to inadequate genomic information. Hence, Illumina
HiSeq 2500 system was conducted to obtain the transcriptome data from shoot and
root of V. fauriei.
RESULTS: A total of 97,595 unigenes were noticed from 346,771,454 raw reads after
preprocessing and assembly. Of these, 47,760 unigens were annotated with Uniprot 
BLAST hits and mapped to COG, GO and KEGG pathway. Also, 70,013 and 88,827
transcripts were expressed in root and shoot of V. fauriei, respectively. Among
the secondary metabolite biosynthesis, terpenoid backbone and phenylpropanoid
biosynthesis were large groups, where transcripts was involved. To characterize
the molecular basis of terpenoid, carotenoid, and phenylpropanoid biosynthesis,
the levels of transcription were determined by qRT-PCR. Also, secondary
metabolites content were measured using GC/MS and HPLC analysis for that gene
expression correlated with its accumulation respectively between shoot and root
of V. fauriei.
CONCLUSIONS: We have identified the transcriptome using Illumina HiSeq system in 
shoot and root of V. fauriei. Also, we have demonstrated gene expressions
associated with secondary metabolism such as terpenoid, carotenoid, and
phenylpropanoid.

DOI: 10.1186/s12864-016-2616-3 
PMCID: PMC4842265
PMID: 27107812  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Gene. 2016 Aug 15;588(1):47-53. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2016.04.033. Epub 2016 Apr
19.

Analysis of differentially expressed genes between fluoride-sensitive and
fluoride-endurable individuals in midgut of silkworm, Bombyx mori.

Qian H(1), Li G(1), He Q(2), Zhang H(2), Xu A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Jiangsu University of Science and Technology, Zhenjiang, Jiangsu 212018,
China; The Sericultural Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural
Sciences, Zhenjiang, Jiangsu 212018, China. (2)Jiangsu University of Science and 
Technology, Zhenjiang, Jiangsu 212018, China. (3)Jiangsu University of Science
and Technology, Zhenjiang, Jiangsu 212018, China; The Sericultural Research
Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Zhenjiang, Jiangsu 212018,
China. Electronic address: srixay@126.com.

Fluoride tolerance is an economically important trait of silkworm. Near-isogenic 
lines (NILs) of the dominant endurance to fluoride (Def) gene in Bombyx mori has 
been constructed before. Here, we analyzed the gene expression profiles of midgut
of fluoride-sensitive and fluoride-endurable individuals of Def NILs by using
high-throughput Illumina sequencing technology and bioinformatics tools, and
identified differentially expressed genes between these individuals. A total of
3,612,399 and 3,567,631 clean tags for the libraries of fluoride-endurable and
fluoride-sensitive individuals were obtained, which corresponded to 32,933 and
43,976 distinct clean tags, respectively. Analysis of differentially expressed
genes indicates that 241 genes are differentially expressed between the two
libraries. Among the 241 genes, 30 are up-regulated and 211 are down-regulated in
fluoride-endurable individuals. Pathway enrichment analysis demonstrates that
genes related to ribosomes, pancreatic secretion, steroid biosynthesis,
glutathione metabolism, steroid biosynthesis, and glycerolipid metabolism are
down-regulated in fluoride-endurable individuals. qRT-PCR was conducted to
confirm the results of the DGE. The present study analyzed differential
expression of related genes and tried to find out whether the crucial genes were 
related to fluoride detoxification which might elucidate fluoride effect and
provide a new way in the fluorosis research.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2016.04.033 
PMID: 27106117  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Oncotarget. 2016 May 31;7(22):32504-18. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.8839.

Clinical significance of monitoring ESR1 mutations in circulating cell-free DNA
in estrogen receptor positive breast cancer patients.

Takeshita T(1), Yamamoto Y(1), Yamamoto-Ibusuki M(2), Inao T(1), Sueta A(1),
Fujiwara S(1), Omoto Y(1,)(3), Iwase H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Breast and Endocrine Surgery, Graduate School of Medical
Science, Kumamoto University, Chuo-ku, Kumamoto, 860-8556, Japan. (2)Department
of Molecular-Targeting Therapy for Breast Cancer, Kumamoto University Hospital,
Chuo-ku, Kumamoto, 860-8556, Japan. (3)Department of Endocrine and Breast
Surgery, Graduate School of Medical Science, Kyoto Prefectural University of
Medicine, Hirokoji Agaru, Kawaramachi-dori, Kamigyo-ku, Kyoto, 602-0841, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The measurement of circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) may transform
the management of breast cancer patients. We aimed to investigate the clinical
significance of sequential measurements of ESR1 mutations in primary breast
cancer (PBC) and metastatic breast cancer (MBC) patients.
RESULTS: ESR1 mutations ratio in the PBC groups was used as the minimum cutoff
for determining increases in cfDNA ESR1 mutation ratio. An increase in cfDNA ESR1
mutations was found in 13 samples of cfDNA from 12 (28.6%) out of 42 MBC
patients. A total of 10 (83.3%) out of 12 MBC patients with increase cfDNA ESR1
mutations showed a poor response to treatment. In survival analysis, increase
cfDNA ESR1 mutations may predict a shorter duration of post-endocrine-therapy
effectiveness (P = 0.0033).
METHODS: A total of 119 patients (253 plasma samples) with breast carcinoma were 
enrolled in this study. Cases were selected if archival plasma samples were
available from PBC before and after treatment and from MBC gathered more than
twice at the time of progression. cfDNA was isolated from the 77 PBC patients
(154 plasma samples) and from the 42 MBC patients (99 plasma samples). To
investigate any changes in each cfDNA ESR1 mutation before and after treatment,
we analyzed the difference with cfDNA ESR1 mutations ratio in the first blood
sample using droplet digital polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR).
CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrate that ddPCR monitoring of the recurrent ESR1 mutation 
in cfDNA of MBC patients is a feasible and useful method of providing relevant
predictive information.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.8839 
PMCID: PMC5078029
PMID: 27102299 

Conflict of interest statement: All the authors declare that they have no actual,
potential, or perceived conflicts of interest with regard to the manuscript
submitted for review.


430. PLoS One. 2016 Apr 18;11(4):e0153901. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0153901.
eCollection 2016.

A Digital PCR-Based Method for Efficient and Highly Specific Screening of Genome 
Edited Cells.

Findlay SD(1,)(2), Vincent KM(1,)(2), Berman JR(3), Postovit LM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada. (2)Department of
Oncology, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, University of Alberta, Edmonton,
Alberta, Canada. (3)Digital Biology Center, Bio-Rad Laboratories, Pleasanton,
California, United States of America.

The rapid adoption of gene editing tools such as CRISPRs and TALENs for research 
and eventually therapeutics necessitates assays that can rapidly detect and
quantitate the desired alterations. Currently, the most commonly used assay
employs "mismatch nucleases" T7E1 or "Surveyor" that recognize and cleave
heteroduplexed DNA amplicons containing mismatched base-pairs. However, this
assay is prone to false positives due to cancer-associated mutations and/or SNPs 
and requires large amounts of starting material. Here we describe a powerful
alternative wherein droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) can be used to decipher
homozygous from heterozygous mutations with superior levels of both precision and
sensitivity. We use this assay to detect knockout inducing alterations to stem
cell associated proteins, NODAL and SFRP1, generated using either TALENs or an
"all-in-one" CRISPR/Cas plasmid that we have modified for one-step cloning and
blue/white screening of transformants. Moreover, we highlight how ddPCR can be
used to assess the efficiency of varying TALEN-based strategies. Collectively,
this work highlights how ddPCR-based screening can be paired with CRISPR and
TALEN technologies to enable sensitive, specific, and streamlined approaches to
gene editing and validation.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0153901 
PMCID: PMC4835065
PMID: 27089539  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. J Neurol Sci. 2016 May 15;364:84-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2016.03.010. Epub 2016 Mar
4.

MicroRNA-29a: A potential biomarker in the development of intracranial aneurysm.

Wang WH(1), Wang YH(2), Zheng LL(1), Li XW(3), Hao F(4), Guo D(5).

Author information: 
(1)Central Laboratory, Liaocheng People's Hospital, Liaocheng Clinical School of 
Taishan Medical University, Liaocheng 252000, PR China. (2)Department of
Neurosurgery, Liaocheng People's Hospital, Liaocheng Clinical School of Taishan
Medical University, Liaocheng 252000, PR China. (3)Department of Neurology,
Liaocheng People's Hospital, Liaocheng Clinical School of Taishan Medical
University, Liaocheng 252000, PR China. (4)Department of Neurology, Liaocheng
People's Hospital, Liaocheng Clinical School of Taishan Medical University,
Liaocheng 252000, PR China. Electronic address: fanghaola123@163.com.
(5)Department of Neurology, Liaocheng People's Hospital, Liaocheng Clinical
School of Taishan Medical University, Liaocheng 252000, PR China. Electronic
address: guodonggd1126@126.com.

AIM: To identify serum microRNA-29a (miR-29a) level in patients with intracranial
aneurysm and its role in the development of intracranial aneurysm (IA).
METHODS: Case group included 165 IA patients hospitalized in the department of
neurosurgery between January 2010 and January 2012 while control group enrolled
220 healthy volunteers. Morning fasting blood samples were collected from
peripheral vein. RT-PCR was used for miR-29a detection. Receiver Operating
Characteristic (ROC) curve was drawn. Survival curves were drawn for survival
analysis with Kaplan-Meier method and Long-rank test was conducted. MiR-29a
expression Glasgow Prognosis Score (GOS) was used for prognosis scaling.
Multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression analysis was performed for
prognosis analysis. Results Cases had significantly higher miR-29a expressions
than controls (P<0.05). ROC curve analysis indicated that miR-29a expression in
IA had high effectiveness in IA diagnosis. Close associations were identified
between miR-29a expression and rupture, Hunt-Hess level and surgical timing (all 
P<0.05). GOS strongly associated with history of hypertension, aneurysm location,
rupture, Hunt-Hess level and miR-29a expression. Patients with low miR-29a
expression had longer disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) than 
those with high miR-29a expression (both P<0.05). MiR-29a expression, tumor
aneurysm, rupture and Hunt-Hess were risk factors to the prognosis of IA (all
P<0.05).
CONCLUSION: MiR-29a may be closely related to IA development and therefore could 
be a useful predicator of IA prognosis, providing a new target for IA therapy.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jns.2016.03.010 
PMID: 27084222  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. PLoS One. 2016 Apr 14;11(4):e0153258. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0153258.
eCollection 2016.

Fetal Genotyping in Maternal Blood by Digital PCR: Towards NIPD of Monogenic
Disorders Independently of Parental Origin.

Perlado S(1), Bustamante-Aragonés A(1), Donas M(1), Lorda-Sánchez I(1), Plaza
J(2), Rodríguez de Alba M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, IIS-Fundación Jiménez Díaz UAM, CIBERER, Madrid,
Spain. (2)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Fundación Jiménez Díaz-IIS,
Madrid, Spain.

PURPOSE: To date, non-invasive prenatal diagnosis (NIPD) of monogenic disorders
has been limited to cases with a paternal origin. This work shows a validation
study of the Droplet Digital PCR (ddPCR) technology for analysis of both
paternally and maternally inherited fetal alleles. For the purpose, single
nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were studied with the only intention to mimic
monogenic disorders.
METHODS: NIPD SNP genotyping was performed by ddPCR in 55 maternal plasma
samples. In 19 out of 55 cases, inheritance of the paternal allele was determined
by presence/absence criteria. In the remaining 36, determination of the
maternally inherited fetal allele was performed by relative mutation dosage (RMD)
analysis.
RESULTS: ddPCR exhibited 100% accuracy for detection of paternal alleles. For
diagnosis of fetal alleles with maternal origin by RMD analysis, the technology
showed an accuracy of 96%. Twenty-nine out of 36 were correctly diagnosed. There 
was one FP and six maternal plasma samples that could not be diagnosed.
DISCUSSION: In this study, ddPCR has shown to be capable to detect both paternal 
and maternal fetal alleles in maternal plasma. This represents a step forward
towards the introduction of NIPD for all pregnancies independently of the
parental origin of the disease.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0153258 
PMCID: PMC4831728
PMID: 27078875  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. J Vis Exp. 2016 Mar 23;(109):e53752. doi: 10.3791/53752.

Assessing Specificity of Anticancer Drugs In Vitro.

Kluwe L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Maxillofacial Surgery, University Medical Center
Hamburg-Eppendorf; Department of Neurology, University Medical Center
Hamburg-Eppendorf; Laboratory for Tumor Biology and Regenerative Medicine,
University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf; kluwe@uke.de.

A procedure for assessing specificity of anticancer drugs in vitro using cultures
containing both tumor and non-tumor cells is demonstrated. The key element is the
quantitative determination of a tumor-specific genetic alteration in relation to 
a universal sequence using a dual-probe digital PCR assay and the subsequent
calculation of the proportion of tumor cells. The assay is carried out on a
culture containing tumor cells of an established line and spiked-in non-tumor
cells. The mixed culture is treated with a test drug at various concentrations.
After the treatment, DNA is prepared directly from the survived adhesive cells in
wells of 96-well plates using a simple and inexpensive method, and subjected to a
dual-probe digital PCR assay for measuring a tumor-specific genetic alteration
and a reference universal sequence. In the present demonstration, a heterozygous 
deletion of the NF1 gene is used as the tumor-specific genetic alteration and a
RPP30 gene as the reference gene. Using the ratio NF1/RPP30, the proportion of
tumor cells was calculated. Since the dose-dependent change of the proportion of 
tumor cells provides an in vitro indication for specificity of the drug, this
genetic and cell-based in vitro assay will likely have application potential in
drug discovery. Furthermore, for personalized cancer-care, this genetic- and
cell-based tool may contribute to optimizing adjuvant chemotherapy by means of
testing efficacy and specificity of candidate drugs using primary cultures of
individual tumors.

DOI: 10.3791/53752 
PMCID: PMC4841310
PMID: 27078035  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Biomol Detect Quantif. 2016 Jan 7;7:9-20. doi: 10.1016/j.bdq.2015.12.003.
eCollection 2016.

Optimization of digital droplet polymerase chain reaction for quantification of
genetically modified organisms.

Gerdes L(1), Iwobi A(1), Busch U(1), Pecoraro S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Bavarian Health and Food Safety Authority (LGL), Veterinaerstr. 2, 85764
Oberschleissheim, Germany.

Digital PCR in droplets (ddPCR) is an emerging method for more and more
applications in DNA (and RNA) analysis. Special requirements when establishing
ddPCR for analysis of genetically modified organisms (GMO) in a laboratory
include the choice between validated official qPCR methods and the optimization
of these assays for a ddPCR format. Differentiation between droplets with
positive reaction and negative droplets, that is setting of an appropriate
threshold, can be crucial for a correct measurement. This holds true in
particular when independent transgene and plant-specific reference gene copy
numbers have to be combined to determine the content of GM material in a sample. 
Droplets which show fluorescent units ranging between those of explicit positive 
and negative droplets are called 'rain'. Signals of such droplets can hinder
analysis and the correct setting of a threshold. In this manuscript, a
computer-based algorithm has been carefully designed to evaluate assay
performance and facilitate objective criteria for assay optimization. Optimized
assays in return minimize the impact of rain on ddPCR analysis. We developed an
Excel based 'experience matrix' that reflects the assay parameters of GMO ddPCR
tests performed in our laboratory. Parameters considered include
singleplex/duplex ddPCR, assay volume, thermal cycler, probe manufacturer,
oligonucleotide concentration, annealing/elongation temperature, and a droplet
separation evaluation. We additionally propose an objective droplet separation
value which is based on both absolute fluorescence signal distance of positive
and negative droplet populations and the variation within these droplet
populations. The proposed performance classification in the experience matrix can
be used for a rating of different assays for the same GMO target, thus enabling
employment of the best suited assay parameters. Main optimization parameters
include annealing/extension temperature and oligonucleotide concentrations. The
droplet separation value allows for easy and reproducible assay performance
evaluation. The combination of separation value with the experience matrix
simplifies the choice of adequate assay parameters for a given GMO event.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bdq.2015.12.003 
PMCID: PMC4827695
PMID: 27077048 


435. Biomol Detect Quantif. 2015 Jan 15;3:A1-5. doi: 10.1016/j.bdq.2015.01.001.
eCollection 2015.

qPCR, dPCR, NGS - A journey.

Huggett JF(1), O'Grady J(2), Bustin S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Cell Biology Team, LGC, Teddington, United Kingdom; Division of 
Infection and Immunity, University College London, United Kingdom. (2)Norwich
Medical School, University of East Anglia, Norwich, United Kingdom.
(3)Postgraduate Medical Institute, Faculty of Medical Science, Anglia Ruskin
University, Chelmsford, United Kingdom.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bdq.2015.01.001 
PMCID: PMC4822211
PMID: 27077031 


436. J Clin Microbiol. 2016 Jun;54(6):1616-23. doi: 10.1128/JCM.03346-15. Epub 2016
Apr 13.

Quantitative Assessment of Commutability for Clinical Viral Load Testing Using a 
Digital PCR-Based Reference Standard.

Tang L(1), Sun Y(1), Buelow D(2), Gu Z(2), Caliendo AM(3), Pounds S(1), Hayden
RT(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biostatistics, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis,
Tennessee, USA. (2)Department of Pathology, St. Jude Children's Research
Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee, USA. (3)Department of Medicine, Alpert Medical
School of Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island, USA. (4)Department of
Pathology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee, USA
randall.hayden@stjude.org.

Given recent advances in the development of quantitative standards, particularly 
WHO international standards, efforts to better understand the commutability of
reference materials have been made. Existing approaches in evaluating
commutability include prediction intervals and correspondence analysis; however, 
the results obtained from existing approaches may be ambiguous. We have developed
a "deviation-from-ideal" (DFI) approach to evaluate commutability of standards
and applied it to the assessment of Epstein-Bar virus (EBV) load testing in four 
quantitative PCR assays, treating digital PCR as a reference assay. We then
discuss advantages and limitations of the DFI approach as well as experimental
design to best evaluate the commutability of an assay in practice.

Copyright © 2016, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.03346-15 
PMCID: PMC4879274
PMID: 27076654 


437. Methods Mol Biol. 2016;1403:207-20. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-3387-7_10.

Application of Droplet Digital PCR to Validate Rift Valley Fever Vaccines.

Ly HJ(1), Lokugamage N(1), Ikegami T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston, 
301 University Blvd., Galveston, TX, 77555, USA. (2)Department of Pathology, The 
University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston, 301 University Blvd., Galveston,
TX, 77555, USA. teikegam@utmb.edu.

Droplet Digital™ polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR™) is a promising technique that
quantitates the absolute concentration of nucleic acids in a given sample. This
technique utilizes water-in-oil emulsion technology, a system developed by
Bio-Rad Laboratories that partitions a single sample into thousands of
nanoliter-sized droplets and counts nucleic acid molecules encapsulated in each
individual particle as one PCR reaction. This chapter discusses the applications 
and methodologies of ddPCR for development of Rift Valley fever (RVF) vaccine,
using an example that measures RNA copy numbers of a live-attenuated MP-12
vaccine from virus stocks, infected cells, or animal blood. We also discuss how
ddPCR detects a reversion mutant of MP-12 from virus stocks accurately. The use
of ddPCR improves the quality control of live-attenuated vaccines in the seed lot
systems.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-3387-7_10 
PMID: 27076132  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. J Agric Food Chem. 2016 May 11;64(18):3712-31. doi: 10.1021/acs.jafc.5b05918.
Epub 2016 Apr 29.

Characterization of Glycolytic Pathway Genes Using RNA-Seq in Developing Kernels 
of Eucommia ulmoides.

Feng Y(1,)(2), Zhang L(2), Fu J(1), Li F(1), Wang L(1), Tan X(2), Mo W(3), Cao
H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Paulownia Research and Development Center, State Forestry Administration ,
Zhengzhou, Henan 450003, China. (2)Key Laboratory of Cultivation and Protection
for Non-Wood Forest Trees, Ministry of Education, Central South University of
Forestry and Technology , Changsha, Hunan 410004, China. (3)Forestry Experiment
Center of North China, Chinese Academy of Forestry , Beijing 102300, China.
(4)Southern Regional Research Center, Agricultural Research Service, U.S.
Department of Agriculture , New Orleans, Louisiana 70124, United States.

Eucommia ulmoides Oliver, the only member of the Eucommiaceae family, is a rare
and valuable tree used to produce a highly valued traditional Chinese medicine
and contains α-linolenic acid (ALA) up to 60% of the total fatty acids in the
kernels (embryos). Glycolysis provides both cellular energy and the intermediates
for other biosynthetic processes. However, nothing was known about the molecular 
basis of the glycolytic pathway in E. ulmoides kernels. The purposes of this
study were to identify novel genes of E. ulmoides related to glycolytic
metabolism and to analyze the expression patterns of selected genes in the
kernels. Transcriptome sequencing based on the Illumina platform generated 96,469
unigenes in four cDNA libraries constructed using RNAs from 70 and 160 days after
flowering kernels of both low- and high-ALA varieties. We identified and
characterized the digital expression of 120 unigenes coding for 24 protein
families involved in kernel glycolytic pathway. The expression levels of
glycolytic genes were generally higher in younger kernels than in more mature
kernels. Importantly, several unigenes from kernels of the high-ALA variety were 
expressed more than those from the low-ALA variety. The expression of 10 unigenes
encoding key enzymes in the glycolytic pathway was validated by qPCR using RNAs
from six kernel stages of each variety. The qPCR data were well consistent with
their digital expression in transcriptomic analyses. This study identified a
comprehensive set of genes for glycolytic metabolism and suggests that several
glycolytic genes may play key roles in ALA accumulation in the kernels of E.
ulmoides.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jafc.5b05918 
PMID: 27074598  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Biotechniques. 2016 Apr 1;60(4):175-6, 178, 180 passim. doi: 10.2144/000114401.
eCollection 2016.

Mutant DNA quantification by digital PCR can be confounded by heating during DNA 
fragmentation.

Kang Q(1), Parkin B(1), Giraldez MD(1), Tewari M(1,)(2,)(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Hematology/Oncology, University
of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI. (2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University
of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI. (3)Center for Computational Medicine and
Bioinformatics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI. (4)Biointerfaces
Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI.

Digital PCR (dPCR) is gaining popularity as a DNA mutation quantification method 
for clinical specimens. Fragmentation prior to dPCR is required for
non-fragmented genomic DNA samples; however, the effect of fragmentation on DNA
analysis has not been well-studied. Here we evaluated three fragmentation methods
for their effects on dPCR point mutation assay performance. Wild-type (WT) human 
genomic DNA was fragmented by heating, restriction digestion, or acoustic
shearing using a Covaris focused-ultrasonicator. dPCR was then used to determine 
the limit of blank (LoB) by quantifying observed WT and mutant allele counts of
the proto-oncogenes KRAS and BRAF in the WT DNA sample. DNA fragmentation by
heating to 95°C, while the simplest and least expensive method, produced a high
background mutation frequency for certain KRAS mutations relative to the other
methods. This was due to heat-induced mutations, specifically affecting dPCR
assays designed to interrogate guanine to adenine (G>A) mutations. Moreover,
heat-induced fragmentation overestimated gene copy number, potentially due to
denaturation and partition of single-stranded DNA into different droplets.
Covaris acoustic shearing and restriction enzyme digestion showed similar LoBs
and gene copy number estimates to one another. It should be noted that moderate
heating, commonly used in genomic DNA extraction protocols, did not significantly
increase observed KRAS mutation counts.

DOI: 10.2144/000114401 
PMID: 27071606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Leuk Res. 2016 Jun;45:33-9. doi: 10.1016/j.leukres.2016.03.002. Epub 2016 Apr 1.

Risk stratification of T-cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia patients based on gene
expression, mutations and copy number variation.

Mirji G(1), Bhat J(1), Kode J(1), Banavali S(2), Sengar M(2), Khadke P(3), Sait
O(3), Chiplunkar S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Chiplunkar Lab, Advanced Centre for Treatment, Research and Education in
Cancer (ACTREC), Tata Memorial Centre, Navi Mumbai, India. (2)Department of
Medical Oncology, Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai, India. (3)Bio-Rad Laboratories 
India Pvt. Ltd., Mumbai, India. (4)Chiplunkar Lab, Advanced Centre for Treatment,
Research and Education in Cancer (ACTREC), Tata Memorial Centre, Navi Mumbai,
India. Electronic address: schiplunkar@actrec.gov.in.

Gene expression, copy number variations (CNV), mutations and survival were
studied to delineate TCRγδ+T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) as a
distinct subgroup from TCRαβ+T-ALL. Gene Ontology analysis showed that
differential regulation of genes involved in pathways for leukemogenesis,
apoptosis, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction and antigen
processing/presentation may offer a survival benefit to TCRγδ+T-ALL patients.
Genes involved in disease biology and having equal expression in both the
subgroups, were further analysed for mutations and CNV using droplet digital PCR.
TCRγδ+T-ALL patients exhibited differential level of mutations for NOTCH1 and
IKZF3; however BRAF mutations were detected at equal levels in both the
subgroups. Although TCRγδ+T-ALL patients with these mutations demonstrated
improved disease-free survival (DFS) as compared TCRαβ+T-ALL patients, it was not
statistically significant. Patients with homozygous deletion of CDKN2A/CDKN2B
showed poor DFS in each subgroup. TCRγδ+T-ALL patients with wild
type/heterozygous deletion of CDKN2A/CDKN2B possess significantly better DFS over
TCRαβ+T-ALL patients (p=0.017 and 0.045, respectively). Thus, the present study
has for the first time demonstrated TCRγδ clonality and CDKN2A/CDKN2B CNV
together as potential prognostic markers in management of T-ALL. Further
understanding the functional significance of differentially regulated genes in
T-ALL patients would aid in designing risk based treatment strategies in subset
specific manner.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.leukres.2016.03.002 
PMID: 27070758 


441. Stem Cells Int. 2016;2016:6146047. doi: 10.1155/2016/6146047. Epub 2016 Mar 16.

Synovial Sarcoma Microvesicles Harbor the SYT-SSX Fusion Gene Transcript:
Comparison of Different Methods of Detection and Implications in Biomarker
Research.

Fricke A(1), Ullrich PV(1), Cimniak AF(1), Follo M(2), Nestel S(3), Heimrich
B(3), Nazarenko I(4), Stark GB(1), Bannasch H(1), Braig D(1), Eisenhardt SU(1).

Author information: 
(1)Clinic for Plastic and Hand Surgery, Medical Center - Faculty of Medicine,
University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany. (2)Clinic for Hematology, Oncology and
Stem Cell Transplantation, Medical Center - Faculty of Medicine, University of
Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany. (3)Institute of Anatomy and Cell Biology, University
of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany. (4)Institute for Environmental Health Sciences
and Hospital Infection Control, Medical Center - Faculty of Medicine, University 
of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.

Background. Synovial sarcoma is an aggressive soft-tissue malignancy. This study 
examines the presence of the SYT-SSX fusion transcript in synovial sarcoma
microvesicles as well as its potential role as a biomarker for synovial sarcoma. 
Patients and Methods. Microvesicle release of synovial sarcoma cells was examined
by transmission electron microscopy. RNA-content was analyzed by qPCR, nested
PCR, nested qPCR, and droplet digital PCR to compare their sensitivity for
detection of the SYT-SSX fusion gene transcript. Whole blood RNA, RNA of
mononuclear cells, and microvesicle RNA of synovial sarcoma patients were
analyzed for the presence of the fusion gene transcripts. Results. Electron
microscopic analysis revealed synovial sarcoma cells releasing membrane-enclosed 
microvesicles. In vitro, the SYT-SSX fusion gene transcript was detected in both 
synovial sarcoma cells and microvesicles. Nested qPCR proved to be the most
sensitive in detecting the SYT-SSX fusion gene mRNA. In contrast, the fusion gene
transcript was not detected in peripheral blood cells and microvesicles of
synovial sarcoma patients. Conclusion. Synovial sarcoma cells release
microvesicles harboring the SYT-SSX fusion transcript. Nested qPCR proved to be
the most sensitive in detecting the SYT-SSX fusion gene mRNA; however, more
sensitive assays are needed to detect cancer-specific microvesicles in the
peripheral blood of cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/6146047 
PMCID: PMC4812493
PMID: 27069481 


442. Hum Mutat. 2016 Jul;37(7):669-78. doi: 10.1002/humu.22996. Epub 2016 Apr 28.

Complex Copy Number Variation of AMY1 does not Associate with Obesity in two East
Asian Cohorts.

Yong RY(1,)(2), Mustaffa SB(1,)(3), Wasan PS(1,)(2), Sheng L(4), Marshall CR(5), 
Scherer SW(5,)(6), Teo YY(2,)(7), Yap EP(1,)(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Defence Medical and Environmental Research Institute, DSO National
Laboratories, Singapore. (2)Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health, National
University of Singapore, Singapore. (3)Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine, Nanyang
Technological University, Singapore. (4)Unit of Biostatistics, Yong Loo Lin
School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore. (5)The Centre
for Applied Genomics, Genetics and Genome Biology, The Hospital for Sick
Children, Toronto, ON, Canada. (6)Department of Molecular Genetics and McLaughlin
Centre, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. (7)Department of Statistics
and Applied Probability, Faculty of Science, National University of Singapore,
Singapore.

The human amylase gene locus at chromosome 1p21.1 is structurally complex. This
region contains two pancreatic amylase genes, AMY2B, AMY2A, and a salivary gene
AMY1. The AMY1 gene harbors extensive copy number variation (CNV), and recent
studies have implicated this variation in adaptation to starch-rich diets and in 
association to obesity for European and Asian populations. In this study, we
showed that by combining quantitative PCR and digital PCR, coupled with careful
experimental design and calibration, we can improve the resolution of genotyping 
CNV with high copy numbers (CNs). In two East Asian populations of Chinese and
Malay ethnicity studied, we observed a unique non-normal distribution of AMY1
diploid CN genotypes with even:odd CNs ratio of 4.5 (3.3-4.7), and an association
between the common AMY2A CN = 2 genotype and odd CNs of AMY1, that could be
explained by the underlying haplotypic structure. In two further case-control
cohorts (n = 932 and 145, for Chinese and Malays, respectively), we did not
observe the previously reported association between AMY1 and obesity or body mass
index. Improved methods for accurately genotyping multiallelic CNV loci and
understanding the haplotype complexity at the AMY1 locus are necessary for
population genetics and association studies.

© 2016 WILEY PERIODICALS, INC.

DOI: 10.1002/humu.22996 
PMID: 27068483 


443. Acta Otolaryngol. 2016 Sep;136(9):923-32. doi: 10.3109/00016489.2016.1165862.
Epub 2016 Apr 12.

Droplet digital PCR and qRT-PCR to detect circulating miR-21 in laryngeal
squamous cell carcinoma and pre-malignant laryngeal lesions.

Wei L(1), Mao M(1,)(2), Liu H(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Pathology , Beijing Tongren Hospital, Capital Medical
University, Beijing Key Laboratory of Head and Neck Molecular Diagnostic
Pathology , Beijing , PR China ; (2)b Beijing Tsinghua Changgung Hospital ,
Beijing , PR China.

CONCLUSIONS: The present study indicates that miR-21 is involved in progression
from normal to pre-malignant laryngeal lesions (PLLs) and from PLLs to laryngeal 
squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC). Furthermore, normalized PCR results for miR-21
might be used to discriminate between normal and ordinary hyperplasia before the 
emergence of dysplasias and pre-malignant lesions with malignant potential.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate a sensitive marker that contributes to progression from
normal tissue to PLLs and from PLLs to LSCC.
METHODS: In 116 PLLs and LSCC patients and 19 without dysplasia matched sets of
tissue and plasma samples from Beijing Tongren Hospital, miR-21 was analysed by
droplet digital PCR and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction based on
paraffin-embedded tumour tissue and plasma.
RESULTS: Compared with controls, miR-21 levels in tissue and plasma were
significantly higher for both PLL and LSCC groups (for both groups vs controls: p
< 0.0001 for tissue; p < 0.05 for plasma). Areas under receiver-operating curves 
(AUC) for tissue miR-21 were PLL group vs controls: 0.9026 and LSCC group vs
controls: 0.8681. For plasma miR-21, AUCs were PLL group vs controls: 0.7355 and 
LSCC group vs control: 0.6723.

DOI: 10.3109/00016489.2016.1165862 
PMID: 27067271  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Sci Rep. 2016 Apr 11;6:24230. doi: 10.1038/srep24230.

Accurate quantification of supercoiled DNA by digital PCR.

Dong L(1), Yoo HB(2,)(3), Wang J(1), Park SR(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Metrology, Beijing, 100013, P.R. China. (2)Korea
Research Institute of Standards and Science, Daejeon, Korea. (3)University of
Science and Technology, Daejeon, Korea.

Digital PCR (dPCR) as an enumeration-based quantification method is capable of
quantifying the DNA copy number without the help of standards. However, it can
generate false results when the PCR conditions are not optimized. A recent
international comparison (CCQM P154) showed that most laboratories significantly 
underestimated the concentration of supercoiled plasmid DNA by dPCR. Mostly,
supercoiled DNAs are linearized before dPCR to avoid such underestimations. The
present study was conducted to overcome this problem. In the bilateral
comparison, the National Institute of Metrology, China (NIM) optimized and
applied dPCR for supercoiled DNA determination, whereas Korea Research Institute 
of Standards and Science (KRISS) prepared the unknown samples and quantified them
by flow cytometry. In this study, several factors like selection of the PCR
master mix, the fluorescent label, and the position of the primers were evaluated
for quantifying supercoiled DNA by dPCR. This work confirmed that a 16S PCR
master mix avoided poor amplification of the supercoiled DNA, whereas HEX labels 
on dPCR probe resulted in robust amplification curves. Optimizing the dPCR assay 
based on these two observations resulted in accurate quantification of
supercoiled DNA without preanalytical linearization. This result was validated in
close agreement (101~113%) with the result from flow cytometry.

DOI: 10.1038/srep24230 
PMCID: PMC4827127
PMID: 27063649  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Cell Immunol. 2016 May;303:43-9. doi: 10.1016/j.cellimm.2016.03.007. Epub 2016
Apr 6.

Droplet digital PCR quantifies host inflammatory transcripts in feces reliably
and reproducibly.

Stauber J(1), Shaikh N(1), Ordiz MI(1), Tarr PI(1), Manary MJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis,
MO 63110, United States. (2)Department of Pediatrics, Washington University
School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110, United States. Electronic address:
manary@kids.wustl.edu.

The gut is the most extensive, interactive, and complex interface between the
human host and the environment and therefore a critical site of immunological
activity. Non-invasive methods to assess the host response in this organ are
currently lacking. Feces are the available analyte which have been in proximity
to the gut tissue. We applied a method of concentrating host transcripts from
fecal specimens using a existing bead-based affinity separation method for
nucleic acids and quantified transcripts using droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) to
determine the copy numbers of a variety of key transcripts in the gut immune
system. ddPCR compartmentalizes the reaction in a small aqueous droplet suspended
in oil, and counts droplets as either fluorescent or non-fluorescent.
Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) was used to normalize transcript
concentration. This method was applied to 799 fecal samples from rural Malawian
children, and over 20,000 transcript concentrations were quantified. Host mRNA
was detected in >99% samples, a threshold for target detection was established at
an average expression of 0.02 copies target/GAPDH, above which correlation
coefficient between duplicate measurements is >0.95. Quantities of transcript
detected using ddPCR were greater than standard qPCR. Fecal sample preservation
at the time of collection did not require immediate freezing or the addition of
buffers or enzymes. Measurements of transcripts encoding immunoactive proteins
correlated with a measure of gut inflammation in the study children, thereby
substantiating their relevance. This method allows investigators to interrogate
gene expression in the gut.

Copyright © 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cellimm.2016.03.007 
PMCID: PMC4863679
PMID: 27063479  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Sichuan Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2016 Jan;47(1):49-53, 59.

[Interaction Between Occupational Vanadium Exposure and hsp70-hom on
Neurobehavioral Function].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang Q, Liu YX, Cui L, Li SP, Gao W, Hu GL, Zhang ZH, Lan YJ.

OBJECTIVE: In determine the effect of heat shock protein 70-hom gene (hsp70-hom) 
polymorphism on the neurobehavioral function of workers exposed to vanadium.
METHODS: Workers from the vanadium products and chemical industry were recruited 
by cluster sampling. Demographic data and exposure information were collected
using a questionnaire. Neurobehavioral function was assessed by Neurobehavioral
Core Test Battery. The hsp70-hom genotype was detected by restricted fragment
length polymorphism-polymerase chain reaction (RFLP-PCR). A neurobehavioral index
(NBI) was formulated through principal component analysis.
RESULTS: Workers with a T/C genotype had worse performance in average reaction
time, visual retention, digital span (backward), Santa Ana aiming (non-habitual
hand), pursuit aiming (right points, total points), digit symbol and NBI score
than others (P < 0.05). The relative risk of abnormal NBI score of the workers
with a T/C genotype was 1.748 fold of those with a T/T genotype. The relative
risk of abnormal.NBI score of the workers exposed to vanadium was 3.048 fold of
controls (P < 0.05). But after adjustment with age and education, only vanadium
exposure appeared with a significant effect on NBI score. When gene polymorphism 
and vanadium exposure coexisted, the effect of vanadium on neurobehavioral
function was attenuated, but the influence of T/C genotype increased Codds ratio 
(OR = 4.577, P < 0.05). After adjustment with age and education, the OR of T/C
genotype further increased to 7.777 (P < 0.05). Vanadium exposure and T/C
genotype had.a bio-interaction effect on NBI score Crelative excess risk due to
interaction (RERI) = 4.12, attributable proportion (AP) = 0.7, synergy index (S) 
= 6.45]. After adjustment with age and education, the RERI became 2.49 and the AP
became 0.75, but no coefficient of interaction was produced.
CONCLUSION: Priorities of occupational protection should be given to
vanadium-exposed workers with a hsp70-hom T/C genotype and low education level.


PMID: 27062781  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Clin Cancer Res. 2016 Sep 1;22(17):4525-35. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-3103.
Epub 2016 Apr 8.

A Quantitative Analysis of Subclonal and Clonal Gene Mutations before and after
Therapy in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia.

Amin NA(1), Seymour E(1), Saiya-Cork K(1), Parkin B(1), Shedden K(2), Malek
SN(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine,
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan. (2)Division of Statistics,
Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.
(3)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine,
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan. smalek@med.umich.edu.

PURPOSE: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)-associated gene mutations that
influence CLL cell fitness and chemotherapy resistance should increase in clonal 
representation when measured before therapy and at relapse.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: To uncover mutations associated with CLL relapse, we have
performed whole-exome sequencing in a discovery cohort of 61 relapsed CLL
patients identifying 86 recurrently mutated genes. The variant allele fractions
(VAF) of 19 genes with mutations in ≥3 of 61 cases were measured in 53 paired
pre- and posttreatment CLL samples sorted to purity using panel-based deep
resequencing or by droplet digital PCR.
RESULTS: We identify mutations in TP53 as the dominant subclonal gene driver of
relapsed CLL often demonstrating substantial increases in VAFs. Subclonal
mutations in SAMHD1 also recurrently demonstrated increased VAFs at relapse.
Mutations in ATP10A, FAT3, FAM50A, and MGA, although infrequent, demonstrated
enrichment in ≥2 cases each. In contrast, mutations in NOTCH1, SF3B1, POT1,
FBXW7, MYD88, NXF1, XPO1, ZMYM3, or CHD2 were predominantly already clonal prior 
to therapy indicative of a pretreatment pathogenetic driver role in CLL.
Quantitative analyses of clonal dynamics uncover rising, stable, and falling
clones and subclones without clear evidence that gene mutations other than in
TP53 and possibly SAMHD1 are frequently selected for at CLL relapse.
CONCLUSIONS: Data in aggregate support a provisional categorization of
CLL-associated recurrently mutated genes into three classes (i) often subclonal
before therapy and strongly enriched after therapy, or, (ii) mostly clonal before
therapy or without further enrichments at relapse, or, (iii) subclonal before and
after therapy and enriching only in sporadic cases. Clin Cancer Res; 22(17);
4525-35. ©2016 AACR.

©2016 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-3103 
PMCID: PMC5010528 [Available on 2017-03-01]
PMID: 27060156 


448. Nucleic Acids Res. 2016 Jun 20;44(11):e105. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkw224. Epub 2016
Apr 7.

Simple, multiplexed, PCR-based barcoding of DNA enables sensitive mutation
detection in liquid biopsies using sequencing.

Ståhlberg A(1), Krzyzanowski PM(2), Jackson JB(3), Egyud M(3), Stein L(2),
Godfrey TE(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Boston University School of Medicine, 700 Albany
Street, Boston, MA 02118, USA Department of Pathology, Sahlgrenska Cancer Center,
Institute of Biomedicine, Sahlgrenska Academy at University of Gothenburg,
Medicinaregatan 1F, 405 30 Gothenberg, Sweden anders.stahlberg@gu.se. (2)Ontario 
Institute for Cancer Research, MaRS Centre, 661 University Avenue, Suite 510,
Toronto, Ontario M5G 0A3, Canada. (3)Department of Surgery, Boston University
School of Medicine, 700 Albany Street, Boston, MA 02118, USA. (4)Department of
Surgery, Boston University School of Medicine, 700 Albany Street, Boston, MA
02118, USA godfreyt@bu.edu.

Detection of cell-free DNA in liquid biopsies offers great potential for use in
non-invasive prenatal testing and as a cancer biomarker. Fetal and tumor DNA
fractions however can be extremely low in these samples and ultra-sensitive
methods are required for their detection. Here, we report an extremely simple and
fast method for introduction of barcodes into DNA libraries made from 5 ng of
DNA. Barcoded adapter primers are designed with an oligonucleotide hairpin
structure to protect the molecular barcodes during the first rounds of polymerase
chain reaction (PCR) and prevent them from participating in mis-priming events.
Our approach enables high-level multiplexing and next-generation sequencing
library construction with flexible library content. We show that uniform
libraries of 1-, 5-, 13- and 31-plex can be generated. Utilizing the barcodes to 
generate consensus reads for each original DNA molecule reduces background
sequencing noise and allows detection of variant alleles below 0.1% frequency in 
clonal cell line DNA and in cell-free plasma DNA. Thus, our approach bridges the 
gap between the highly sensitive but specific capabilities of digital PCR, which 
only allows a limited number of variants to be analyzed, with the broad target
capability of next-generation sequencing which traditionally lacks the
sensitivity to detect rare variants.

© The Author(s) 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic
Acids Research.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkw224 
PMCID: PMC4914102
PMID: 27060140 


449. J Virol Methods. 2016 Aug;234:22-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2016.04.001. Epub
2016 Apr 4.

Dynamic quantification of avian influenza H7N9(A) virus in a human infection
during clinical treatment using droplet digital PCR.

Yan Y(1), Jia XJ(2), Wang HH(1), Fu XF(3), Ji JM(1), He PY(1), Chen LX(1), Luo
JY(1), Chen ZW(4).

Author information: 
(1)Jiaxing Key Laboratory of Pathogenic Microbiology, Jiaxing Center for Disease 
Control and Prevention, Wenqiao Road 486, Jiaxing 314050, China. (2)College of
Mathematics, Physics and Information Engineering, Jiaxing University, Jiahang
Road 118, Jiaxing 314001, China. (3)Department of Infectious Disease Control and 
Prevention, Jiaxing Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Wenqiao Road 486, 
Jiaxing 314050, China. (4)Jiaxing Key Laboratory of Pathogenic Microbiology,
Jiaxing Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Wenqiao Road 486, Jiaxing
314050, China. Electronic address: 275472076@qq.com.

This study involved a human infection with avian influenza H7N9(A) virus in
Zhejiang province, the first one after implementing the closure measures of
living poultry markets in China. The clinical symptoms, epidemiological and
virological characteristics of the case were described briefly, and as the
emphasis, H7N9 virus was detected quantitatively and continuously from the
collected samples in 10 different periods of the patient's treatment in order to 
reveal changes of viral load in patient's body during the treatment. This study
first used reverse-transcription droplet digital PCR (RT-ddPCR) assays to monitor
viral load dynamically for human H7N9 infection, synchronously performing
real-time RT-PCR as a reference technology to obtain more comprehensive data for 
comparison. Our results indicated that RT-ddPCR compared to real-time RT-PCR is
more sensitive and accurate for quantifying H7N9 viral load without the use of
standard curves. Furthermore it can provide reference data for clinical policies 
including infectivity judgement, ward transferring and therapy adjustment for the
patient during treatment.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2016.04.001 
PMID: 27058642 


450. Am J Hum Genet. 2016 Apr 7;98(4):789-95. doi: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2016.03.009.

Somatic Activating Mutations in GNAQ and GNA11 Are Associated with Congenital
Hemangioma.

Ayturk UM(1), Couto JA(2), Hann S(3), Mulliken JB(4), Williams KL(3), Huang
AY(1), Fishman SJ(5), Boyd TK(6), Kozakewich HP(7), Bischoff J(8), Greene AK(4), 
Warman ML(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, MA
02115, USA; Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115,
USA. (2)Department of Plastic and Oral Surgery, Boston Children's Hospital,
Boston, MA 02115, USA. (3)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Boston Children's
Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA. (4)Department of Plastic and Oral Surgery,
Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA; Vascular Anomalies Center,
Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA. (5)Vascular Anomalies Center, 
Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA; Department of Surgery, Boston 
Children's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA. (6)Department of Pathology, Boston
Children's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA. (7)Vascular Anomalies Center, Boston 
Children's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA; Department of Pathology, Boston
Children's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA. (8)Department of Surgery, Boston
Children's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA; Vascular Biology Program, Boston
Children's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA. (9)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery,
Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA; Department of Genetics,
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA; Vascular Anomalies Center, Boston 
Children's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA; Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA. Electronic address:
matthew.warman@childrens.harvard.edu.

Congenital hemangioma is a rare vascular tumor that forms in utero. Postnatally, 
the tumor either involutes quickly (i.e., rapidly involuting congenital
hemangioma [RICH]) or partially regresses and stabilizes (i.e., non-involuting
congenital hemangioma [NICH]). We hypothesized that congenital hemangiomas arise 
due to somatic mutation and performed massively parallel mRNA sequencing on
affected tissue from eight participants. We identified mutually exclusive, mosaic
missense mutations that alter glutamine at amino acid 209 (Glu209) in GNAQ or
GNA11 in all tested samples, at variant allele frequencies (VAF) ranging from 3% 
to 33%. We verified the presence of the mutations in genomic DNA using a
combination of molecular inversion probe sequencing (MIP-seq) and digital droplet
PCR (ddPCR). The Glu209 GNAQ and GNA11 missense variants we identified are common
in uveal melanoma and have been shown to constitutively activate MAPK and/or YAP 
signaling. When we screened additional archival formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded 
(FFPE) congenital cutaneous and hepatic hemangiomas, 4/8 had GNAQ or GNA11 Glu209
variants. The same GNAQ or GNA11 mutation is found in both NICH and RICH, so
other factors must account for these tumors' different postnatal behaviors.

Copyright © 2016 The American Society of Human Genetics. Published by Elsevier
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2016.03.009 
PMCID: PMC4833432
PMID: 27058448  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. JAMA Oncol. 2016 Aug 1;2(8):1014-22. doi: 10.1001/jamaoncol.2016.0173.

Prospective Validation of Rapid Plasma Genotyping for the Detection of EGFR and
KRAS Mutations in Advanced Lung Cancer.

Sacher AG(1), Paweletz C(2), Dahlberg SE(3), Alden RS(4), O'Connell A(2), Feeney 
N(2), Mach SL(4), Jänne PA(5), Oxnard GR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Lowe Center for Thoracic Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts2Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts. (2)Belfer Center for Applied Cancer Science, Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute, Boston, Massachusetts. (3)Department of Biostatistics and
Computational Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts5Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts.
(4)Lowe Center for Thoracic Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
Massachusetts. (5)Lowe Center for Thoracic Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute, Boston, Massachusetts2Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts3Belfer Center for Applied Cancer Science,
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachus.

Erratum in
    JAMA Oncol. 2016 Aug 1;2(8):1099.

Comment in
    JAMA Oncol. 2016 Aug 1;2(8):1096.

IMPORTANCE: Plasma genotyping of cell-free DNA has the potential to allow for
rapid noninvasive genotyping while avoiding the inherent shortcomings of tissue
genotyping and repeat biopsies.
OBJECTIVE: To prospectively validate plasma droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) for the
rapid detection of common epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and KRAS
mutations, as well as the EGFR T790M acquired resistance mutation.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Patients with advanced nonsquamous
non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who either (1) had a new diagnosis and were
planned for initial therapy or (2) had developed acquired resistance to an EGFR
kinase inhibitor and were planned for rebiopsy underwent initial blood sampling
and immediate plasma ddPCR for EGFR exon 19 del, L858R, T790M, and/or KRAS G12X
between July 3, 2014, and June 30, 2015, at a National Cancer
Institute-designated comprehensive cancer center. All patients underwent biopsy
for tissue genotyping, which was used as the reference standard for comparison;
rebiopsy was required for patients with acquired resistance to EGFR kinase
inhibitors. Test turnaround time (TAT) was measured in business days from blood
sampling until test reporting.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Plasma ddPCR assay sensitivity, specificity, and TAT.
RESULTS: Of 180 patients with advanced NSCLC (62% female; median [range] age, 62 
[37-93] years), 120 cases were newly diagnosed; 60 had acquired resistance. Tumor
genotype included 80 EGFR exon 19/L858R mutants, 35 EGFR T790M, and 25 KRAS G12X 
mutants. Median (range) TAT for plasma ddPCR was 3 (1-7) days. Tissue genotyping 
median (range) TAT was 12 (1-54) days for patients with newly diagnosed NSCLC and
27 (1-146) days for patients with acquired resistance. Plasma ddPCR exhibited a
positive predictive value of 100% (95% CI, 91%-100%) for EGFR 19 del, 100% (95%
CI, 85%-100%) for L858R, and 100% (95% CI, 79%-100%) for KRAS, but lower for
T790M at 79% (95% CI, 62%-91%). The sensitivity of plasma ddPCR was 82% (95% CI, 
69%-91%) for EGFR 19 del, 74% (95% CI, 55%-88%) for L858R, and 77% (95% CI,
60%-90%) for T790M, but lower for KRAS at 64% (95% CI, 43%-82%). Sensitivity for 
EGFR or KRAS was higher in patients with multiple metastatic sites and those with
hepatic or bone metastases, specifically.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Plasma ddPCR detected EGFR and KRAS mutations rapidly 
with the high specificity needed to select therapy and avoid repeat biopsies.
This assay may also detect EGFR T790M missed by tissue genotyping due to tumor
heterogeneity in resistant disease.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaoncol.2016.0173 
PMCID: PMC4982795 [Available on 2017-08-01]
PMID: 27055085  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Curr Opin HIV AIDS. 2016 Jul;11(4):424-31. doi: 10.1097/COH.0000000000000282.

Current approaches to assess HIV-1 persistence.

Banga R(1), Procopio FA, Perreau M.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Immunology and Allergy, Lausanne University Hospital, University
of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The persistence of HIV within long-lived HIV-infected CD4 T
cells is the primary obstacle towards HIV eradication and numerous strategies are
currently being evaluated to target and kill HIV-infected cells to ultimately
find a cure. HIV reservoirs are classically quantified by standard methods such
as integrated HIV DNA (Alu PCR) and/or quantitative viral outgrowth assay;
however, recent technical advances may offer new opportunities to comprehensively
assess the impact of clinical interventions.
RECENT FINDINGS: Digital droplet PCR, tat/rev-induced limiting dilution analysis,
enhanced quantitative viral outgrowth assay, and whole genome sequencing
technologies offer increased precision and/or higher sensitivity to quantify and 
characterize HIV reservoirs in antiretroviral therapy-treated HIV-infected
patients.
SUMMARY: The objective of this review is to highlight the characteristics and
limits of recent technical advances that may help to monitor the impact of
clinical interventions in antiretroviral therapy-treated patients.

DOI: 10.1097/COH.0000000000000282 
PMID: 27054279 


453. Sci Rep. 2016 Apr 6;6:24067. doi: 10.1038/srep24067.

Comparison of DNA Quantification Methods for Next Generation Sequencing.

Robin JD(1), Ludlow AT(1), LaRanger R(1), Wright WE(1), Shay JW(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, 5323 Harry Hines Boulevard, UT Southwestern
Medical Center, Dallas, TX 75390-9030, USA. (2)Center for Excellence in Genomics 
Medicine Research, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.

Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) is a powerful tool that depends on loading a
precise amount of DNA onto a flowcell. NGS strategies have expanded our ability
to investigate genomic phenomena by referencing mutations in cancer and diseases 
through large-scale genotyping, developing methods to map rare chromatin
interactions (4C; 5C and Hi-C) and identifying chromatin features associated with
regulatory elements (ChIP-seq, Bis-Seq, ChiA-PET). While many methods are
available for DNA library quantification, there is no unambiguous gold standard. 
Most techniques use PCR to amplify DNA libraries to obtain sufficient quantities 
for optical density measurement. However, increased PCR cycles can distort the
library's heterogeneity and prevent the detection of rare variants. In this
analysis, we compared new digital PCR technologies (droplet digital PCR; ddPCR,
ddPCR-Tail) with standard methods for the titration of NGS libraries. DdPCR-Tail 
is comparable to qPCR and fluorometry (QuBit) and allows sensitive quantification
by analysis of barcode repartition after sequencing of multiplexed samples. This 
study provides a direct comparison between quantification methods throughout a
complete sequencing experiment and provides the impetus to use ddPCR-based
quantification for improvement of NGS quality.

DOI: 10.1038/srep24067 
PMCID: PMC4822169
PMID: 27048884  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Front Plant Sci. 2016 Mar 21;7:332. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2016.00332. eCollection
2016.

De novo Sequencing of the Leaf Transcriptome Reveals Complex Light-Responsive
Regulatory Networks in Camellia sinensis cv. Baijiguan.

Wu Q(1), Chen Z(2), Sun W(3), Deng T(1), Chen M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Tea Science, College of Horticulture, Fujian Agriculture and
Forestry University Fuzhou, China. (2)Department of Tea Science, Anxi College of 
Tea Science, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University Fuzhou, China.
(3)Department of Tea Science, College of Horticulture, Fujian Agriculture and
Forestry UniversityFuzhou, China; Department of Tea Science, Anxi College of Tea 
Science, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry UniversityFuzhou, China. (4)Haixia
Institute of Science and Technology, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University
Fuzhou, China.

Tea plants (Camellia sinensis L.) possess high genetic diversity that is
important for breeding. One cultivar, Baijiguan, exhibits a yellow leaf
phenotype, reduced chlorophyll (Chl) content, and aberrant chloroplast structures
under high light intensity. In contrast, under low light intensity, the flush
shoot from Baijiguan becomes green, the Chl content increases significantly, and 
the chloroplasts exhibit normal structures. To understand the underlying
molecular mechanisms for these observations, we performed de novo transcriptome
sequencing and digital gene expression (DGE) profiling using Illumina sequencing 
technology. De novo transcriptome assembly identified 88,788 unigenes, including 
1652 transcription factors from 25 families. In total, 1993 and 2576
differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in Baijiguan plants treated
with 3 and 6 days of shade, respectively. Gene Ontology (GO) and pathway
enrichment analyses indicated that the DEGs are predominantly involved in the ROS
scavenging system, chloroplast development, photosynthetic pigment synthesis,
secondary metabolism, and circadian systems. The light-responsive gene POR
(protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase) and transcription factor HY5 were
identified. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis of 20 selected DEGs
confirmed the RNA-sequencing (RNA-Seq) results. Overall, these findings suggest
that high light intensity inhibits the expression of photosystem II 10-kDa
protein (PsbR) in Baijiguan, thus affecting PSII stability, chloroplast
development and chlorophyll biosynthesis.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2016.00332 
PMCID: PMC4801010
PMID: 27047513 


455. PLoS One. 2016 Apr 5;11(4):e0153065. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0153065.
eCollection 2016.

Genomic Aberrations in Crizotinib Resistant Lung Adenocarcinoma Samples
Identified by Transcriptome Sequencing.

Saber A(1), van der Wekken AJ(2), Kok K(3), Terpstra MM(3), Bosman LJ(1), Mastik 
MF(1), Timens W(1), Schuuring E(1), Hiltermann TJ(2), Groen HJ(2), van den Berg
A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Medical Biology, University of Groningen,
University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands. (2)Department of
Pulmonary Diseases, University of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen,
Groningen, Netherlands. (3)Department of Genetics, University of Groningen,
University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands.

ALK-break positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients initially respond 
to crizotinib, but resistance occurs inevitably. In this study we aimed to
identify fusion genes in crizotinib resistant tumor samples. Re-biopsies of three
patients were subjected to paired-end RNA sequencing to identify fusion genes
using deFuse and EricScript. The IGV browser was used to determine presence of
known resistance-associated mutations. Sanger sequencing was used to validate
fusion genes and digital droplet PCR to validate mutations. ALK fusion genes were
detected in all three patients with EML4 being the fusion partner. One patient
had no additional fusion genes. Another patient had one additional fusion gene,
but without a predicted open reading frame (ORF). The third patient had three
additional fusion genes, of which two were derived from the same chromosomal
region as the EML4-ALK. A predicted ORF was identified only in the CLIP4-VSNL1
fusion product. The fusion genes validated in the post-treatment sample were also
present in the biopsy before crizotinib. ALK mutations (p.C1156Y and p.G1269A)
detected in the re-biopsies of two patients, were not detected in pre-treatment
biopsies. In conclusion, fusion genes identified in our study are unlikely to be 
involved in crizotinib resistance based on presence in pre-treatment biopsies.
The detection of ALK mutations in post-treatment tumor samples of two patients
underlines their role in crizotinib resistance.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0153065 
PMCID: PMC4821611
PMID: 27045755  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Int J Mol Sci. 2016 Apr 1;17(4):484. doi: 10.3390/ijms17040484.

KRAS G12V Mutation Detection by Droplet Digital PCR in Circulating Cell-Free DNA 
of Colorectal Cancer Patients.

Olmedillas López S(1), García-Olmo DC(2), García-Arranz M(3,)(4), Guadalajara
H(5,)(6), Pastor C(7), García-Olmo D(8,)(9,)(10).

Author information: 
(1)Health Research Institute-Fundación Jiménez Díaz University Hospital
(IIS-FJD), Madrid 28040, Spain. susana.olmedillas@fjd.es. (2)Experimental
Research Unit, General University Hospital of Albacete, Albacete 02006, Spain.
doloresg@sescam.jccm.es. (3)Health Research Institute-Fundación Jiménez Díaz
University Hospital (IIS-FJD), Madrid 28040, Spain. mariano.garcia@fjd.es.
(4)Department of Surgery, School of Medicine, Autónoma University of Madrid,
Madrid 28029, Spain. mariano.garcia@fjd.es. (5)Department of Surgery, School of
Medicine, Autónoma University of Madrid, Madrid 28029, Spain.
h.guadalajara@gmail.com. (6)Department of General Surgery, General Hospital of
Villalba, Madrid 28400, Spain. h.guadalajara@gmail.com. (7)Department of Surgery,
Fundación Jiménez Díaz University Hospital, Madrid 28040, Spain.
cpastorid@fjd.es. (8)Health Research Institute-Fundación Jiménez Díaz University 
Hospital (IIS-FJD), Madrid 28040, Spain. damian.garcia@uam.es. (9)Department of
Surgery, School of Medicine, Autónoma University of Madrid, Madrid 28029, Spain. 
damian.garcia@uam.es. (10)Department of Surgery, Fundación Jiménez Díaz
University Hospital, Madrid 28040, Spain. damian.garcia@uam.es.

KRAS mutations are responsible for resistance to anti-epidermal growth factor
receptor (EGFR) therapy in colorectal cancer patients. These mutations sometimes 
appear once treatment has started. Detection of KRAS mutations in circulating
cell-free DNA in plasma ("liquid biopsy") by droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) has
emerged as a very sensitive and promising alternative to serial biopsies for
disease monitoring. In this study, KRAS G12V mutation was analyzed by ddPCR in
plasma DNA from 10 colorectal cancer patients and compared to six healthy donors.
The percentage of KRAS G12V mutation relative to wild-type sequences in
tumor-derived DNA was also determined. KRAS G12V mutation circulating in plasma
was detected in 9 of 10 colorectal cancer patients whose tumors were also
mutated. Colorectal cancer patients had 35.62 copies of mutated KRAS/mL plasma,
whereas in healthy controls only residual copies were found (0.62 copies/mL, p = 
0.0066). Interestingly, patients with metastatic disease showed a significantly
higher number of mutant copies than M0 patients (126.25 versus 9.37 copies/mL, p 
= 0.0286). Wild-type KRAS was also significantly elevated in colorectal cancer
patients compared to healthy controls (7718.8 versus 481.25 copies/mL, p =
0.0002). In conclusion, KRAS G12V mutation is detectable in plasma of colorectal 
cancer patients by ddPCR and could be used as a non-invasive biomarker.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms17040484 
PMCID: PMC4848940
PMID: 27043547  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Anal Chem. 2016 May 3;88(9):4879-85. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.6b00707. Epub 2016
Apr 12.

Initial Diagnosis of ALK-Positive Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer Based on Analysis of
ALK Status Utilizing Droplet Digital PCR.

Lund HL(1,)(2), Hughesman CB(1,)(3), Fakhfakh K(1,)(3), McNeil K(4), Clemens
S(4), Hocken K(4), Pettersson R(4), Karsan A(4), Foster LJ(1,)(5), Haynes
C(1,)(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Michael Smith Laboratories, University of British Columbia , Vancouver,
British Columbia V6T 1Z4, Canada. (2)Genomic Science and Technology, University
of British Columbia , Vancouver, British Columbia V5Z 4S6, Canada. (3)Department 
of Chemical and Biological Engineering, University of British Columbia ,
Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 1Z3, Canada. (4)Cancer Genetics Testing
Laboratory, Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, British Columbia
Cancer Agency, Vancouver, British Columbia V5Z 4E6, Canada. (5)Department of
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of British Columbia , Vancouver,
British Columbia V6T 1Z3, Canada.

We describe a novel droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) assay capable of detecting
genomic alterations associated with inversion translocations. It is applied here 
to detection of rearrangements in the anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) gene
associated with ALK-positive non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). NSCLC patients
may carry a nonreciprocal translocation on human chromosome 2, in which
synchronized double stranded breaks (DSB) within the echinoderm
microtubule-associated protein-like 4 (EML4) gene and ALK lead to an inversion of
genetic material that forms the non-natural gene fusion EML4-ALK encoding a
constitutively active tyrosine kinase that is associated with 3 to 7% of all
NSCLCs. Detection of ALK rearrangements is currently achieved in clinics through 
direct visualization via a fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) assay, which 
can detect those rearrangements to a limit of detection (LOD) of ca. 15%. We show
that the ddPCR assay presented here provides a LOD of 0.25% at lower cost and
with faster turnaround times.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.6b00707 
PMID: 27043019 


458. J Comp Pathol. 2016 May;154(4):273-82. doi: 10.1016/j.jcpa.2016.02.006. Epub 2016
Mar 31.

Detection and Isolation of Digital Dermatitis Treponemes from Bovine Pressure
Sores.

Clegg SR(1), Crosby-Durrani HE(2), Bell J(3), Blundell R(2), Blowey RW(4), Carter
SD(3), Evans NJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infection Biology, Institute of Infection and Global Health,
School of Veterinary Science, University of Liverpool, Liverpool Science Park
IC2, 146 Brownlow Hill, Liverpool, UK. Electronic address: S.R.Clegg@liv.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Veterinary Pathology, School of Veterinary Science, Leahurst,
Chester High Road, Neston, UK. (3)Department of Infection Biology, Institute of
Infection and Global Health, School of Veterinary Science, University of
Liverpool, Liverpool Science Park IC2, 146 Brownlow Hill, Liverpool, UK.
(4)University of Liverpool and Wood Veterinary Group, Gloucester,
Gloucestershire, UK.

Pressure sores cause severe pain and discomfort in hospitalized people and in
farmed cattle and are often infected with unknown bacteria. Pressure sores occur 
on the upper legs of 6-10% of recumbent cattle and are generally considered to be
caused by constant pressure, commonly on bony areas of the limbs. This study
analyzed pressure sores taken from the upper limbs of 14 cattle using isolation
in culture and nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to detect treponemes
associated with digital dermatitis (DD). A 100% association of DD treponemes with
the pressure sores was demonstrated, but treponemes were shown not to be part of 
the normal skin microbiota. Immunohistochemistry showed an association of DD
treponemes with lesions and particularly with the hair follicles in lesions,
identifying the bacteria deep within wounds, thereby suggesting that they could
contribute to lesion pathogenesis. The bacteria isolated from the pressure sore
lesions were similar or identical on analysis of the 16S rRNA gene to those found
in DD foot lesions in cattle, suggesting the same bacteria can infect multiple
lesions. Indeed, the results of this study suggest that these spirochaetal
bacteria may be expanding in host range and in their ability to colonize
different tissues and contribute to a range of disease manifestations in farm
animals.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcpa.2016.02.006 
PMID: 27040650 


459. Mol Cancer Ther. 2016 May;15(5):1106-12. doi: 10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-15-0820. Epub
2016 Apr 1.

Nanofluidic Digital PCR and Extended Genotyping of RAS and BRAF for Improved
Selection of Metastatic Colorectal Cancer Patients for Anti-EGFR Therapies.

Azuara D(1), Santos C(2), Lopez-Doriga A(3), Grasselli J(4), Nadal M(1), Sanjuan 
X(5), Marin F(1), Vidal J(6), Montal R(7), Moreno V(3), Bellosillo B(8), Argiles 
G(9), Elez E(9), Dienstmann R(9), Montagut C(6), Tabernero J(9), Capellá G(10),
Salazar R(11).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Research Laboratory, Catalan Insitute of Oncology (ICO),
Bellvitge Biomedical Research Institute (IDIBELL), L'Hospitalet de Llobregat,
Barcelona, Spain. (2)Translational Research Laboratory, Catalan Insitute of
Oncology (ICO), Bellvitge Biomedical Research Institute (IDIBELL), L'Hospitalet
de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain. Department of Medical Oncology, Catalan Insitute 
of Oncology (ICO), Bellvitge Biomedical Research Institute (IDIBELL),
L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain. (3)Unit of Biomarkers and
Susceptibility, Catalan Insitute of Oncology (ICO), Bellvitge Biomedical Research
Institute (IDIBELL), L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain. (4)Department
of Medical Oncology, Catalan Insitute of Oncology (ICO), Bellvitge Biomedical
Research Institute (IDIBELL), L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain.
Department of Medical Oncology, Vall d'Hebron University Hospital and Institute
of Oncology (VHIO), Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(5)Department of Pathology, University Hospital Bellvitge (HUB-IDIBELL),
L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain. (6)Department of Medical Oncology,
Hospital Universitari del Mar, Barcelona, Spain. (7)Department of Medical
Oncology, Catalan Insitute of Oncology (ICO), Bellvitge Biomedical Research
Institute (IDIBELL), L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain. (8)Department
of Pathology, Hospital Universitari del Mar, Barcelona, Spain. (9)Department of
Medical Oncology, Vall d'Hebron University Hospital and Institute of Oncology
(VHIO), Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. (10)Translational
Research Laboratory, Catalan Insitute of Oncology (ICO), Bellvitge Biomedical
Research Institute (IDIBELL), L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain.
ramonsalazar@iconcologia.net gcapella@iconcologia.net. (11)Translational Research
Laboratory, Catalan Insitute of Oncology (ICO), Bellvitge Biomedical Research
Institute (IDIBELL), L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain. Department of
Medical Oncology, Catalan Insitute of Oncology (ICO), Bellvitge Biomedical
Research Institute (IDIBELL), L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain.
ramonsalazar@iconcologia.net gcapella@iconcologia.net.

The clinical significance of low-frequent RAS pathway-mutated alleles and the
optimal sensitivity cutoff value in the prediction of response to anti-EGFR
therapy in metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) patients remains controversial. We
aimed to evaluate the added value of genotyping an extended RAS panel using a
robust nanofluidic digital PCR (dPCR) approach. A panel of 34 hotspots, including
RAS (KRAS and NRAS exons 2/3/4) and BRAF (V600E), was analyzed in tumor FFPE
samples from 102 mCRC patients treated with anti-EGFR therapy. dPCR was compared 
with conventional quantitative PCR (qPCR). Response rates, progression-free
survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS) were correlated to the mutational
status and the mutated allele fraction. Tumor response evaluations were not
available in 9 patients and were excluded for response rate analysis. Twenty-two 
percent of patients were positive for one mutation with qPCR (mutated alleles
ranged from 2.1% to 66.6%). Analysis by dPCR increased the number of positive
patients to 47%. Mutated alleles for patients only detected by dPCR ranged from
0.04% to 10.8%. An inverse correlation between the fraction of mutated alleles
and radiologic response was observed. ROC analysis showed that a fraction of 1%
or higher of any mutated alleles offered the best predictive value for all
combinations of RAS and BRAF analysis. In addition, this threshold also optimized
prediction both PFS and OS. We conclude that mutation testing using an extended
gene panel, including RAS and BRAF with a threshold of 1% improved prediction of 
response to anti-EGFR therapy. Mol Cancer Ther; 15(5); 1106-12. ©2016 AACR.

©2016 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-15-0820 
PMID: 27037411 


460. Arthritis Res Ther. 2016 Mar 31;18:75. doi: 10.1186/s13075-016-0973-6.

Colony-stimulating factor (CSF) 1 receptor blockade reduces inflammation in human
and murine models of rheumatoid arthritis.

Garcia S(1,)(2,)(3), Hartkamp LM(1,)(2,)(3), Malvar-Fernandez B(1,)(2,)(3), van
Es IE(1,)(2), Lin H(4), Wong J(4), Long L(4), Zanghi JA(4), Rankin AL(4),
Masteller EL(4), Wong BR(4), Radstake TR(3), Tak PP(2,)(5,)(6), Reedquist
KA(7,)(8,)(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Immunology, Academic Medical Center, University of 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. (2)Department of Clinical Immunology and
Rheumatology, Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands. (3)Laboratory of Translational Immunology and Department of
Rheumatology and ClinicalImmunology, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, 
The Netherlands. (4)Five Prime Therapeutics, Inc., Two Corporate Drive, South San
Francisco, CA, USA. (5)Present address: GlaxoSmithKline, Stevenage, UK.
(6)Present address: Cambridge University, Cambridge, UK. (7)Department of
Experimental Immunology, Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam,
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. k.a.reedquist@umcutrecht.nl. (8)Department of
Clinical Immunology and Rheumatology, Academic Medical Center, University of
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. k.a.reedquist@umcutrecht.nl. (9)Laboratory
of Translational Immunology and Department of Rheumatology and
ClinicalImmunology, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
k.a.reedquist@umcutrecht.nl.

BACKGROUND: CSF-1 or IL-34 stimulation of CSF1R promotes macrophage
differentiation, activation and osteoclastogenesis, and pharmacological
inhibition of CSF1R is beneficial in animal models of arthritis. The objective of
this study was to determine the relative contributions of CSF-1 and IL-34
signaling to CSF1R in RA.
METHODS: CSF-1 and IL-34 were detected by immunohistochemical and digital image
analysis in synovial tissue from 15 biological-naïve rheumatoid arthritis (RA) , 
15 psoriatic arthritis (PsA) and 7 osteoarthritis (OA) patients . Gene expression
in CSF-1- and IL-34-differentiated human macrophages was assessed by FACS
analysis and quantitative PCR. RA synovial explants were incubated with CSF-1,
IL-34, control antibody (Ab), or neutralizing/blocking Abs targeting CSF-1,
IL-34, or CSF1R. The effect of a CSF1R-blocking Ab was examined in murine
collagen-induced arthritis (CIA).
RESULTS: CSF-1 (also known as M-CSF) and IL-34 expression was similar in RA and
PsA synovial tissue, but lower in controls (P < 0.05). CSF-1 expression was
observed in the synovial sublining, and IL-34 in the sublining and the intimal
lining layer. CSF-1 and IL-34 differentially regulated the expression of 17 of
336 inflammation-associated genes in macrophages, including chemokines,
extra-cellular matrix components, and matrix metalloproteinases. Exogenous CSF-1 
or IL-34, or their independent neutralization, had no effect on RA synovial
explant IL-6 production. Anti-CSF1R Ab significantly reduced IL-6 and other
inflammatory mediator production in RA synovial explants, and paw swelling and
joint destruction in CIA.
CONCLUSIONS: Simultaneous inhibition of CSF1R interactions with both CSF-1 and
IL-34 suppresses inflammatory activation of RA synovial tissue and pathology in
CIA, suggesting a novel therapeutic strategy for RA.

DOI: 10.1186/s13075-016-0973-6 
PMCID: PMC4818474
PMID: 27036883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. JAMA Oncol. 2016 Jul 1;2(7):882-9. doi: 10.1001/jamaoncol.2016.0097.

A Novel Urine Exosome Gene Expression Assay to Predict High-grade Prostate Cancer
at Initial Biopsy.

McKiernan J(1), Donovan MJ(2), O'Neill V(3), Bentink S(3), Noerholm M(3), Belzer 
S(3), Skog J(3), Kattan MW(4), Partin A(5), Andriole G(6), Brown G(7), Wei JT(8),
Thompson IM Jr(9), Carroll P(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Columbia University, New York, New York. (2)Department 
of Pathology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mt Sinai, New York, New York.
(3)Exosome Diagnostics, Cambridge, Massachusetts. (4)Department of Quantitative
Health Sciences, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio. (5)Department of Urology,
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland. (6)Division of 
Urologic Surgery, Washington University, St Louis, Missouri. (7)Delaware Valley
Urology, Voorhees, New Jersey. (8)Division of Urologic Surgery, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor. (9)The Cancer Therapy and Research Center, University of
Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio. (10)Department of
Urology, University of California-San Francisco, San Francisco.

IMPORTANCE: Overdiagnosis and overtreatment of indolent prostate cancer (PCA) is 
a serious health issue in most developed countries. There is an unmet clinical
need for noninvasive, easy to administer, diagnostic assays to help assess
whether a prostate biopsy is warranted.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the performance of a novel urine exosome gene expression 
assay (the ExoDx Prostate IntelliScore urine exosome assay) plus standard of care
(SOC) (ie, prostate-specific antigen [PSA] level, age, race, and family history) 
vs SOC alone for discriminating between Gleason score (GS)7 and GS6 and benign
disease on initial biopsy.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: In training, using reverse-transcriptase
polymerase chain reaction (PCR), we compared the urine exosome gene expression
assay with biopsy outcomes in 499 patients with prostate-specific antigen (PSA)
levels of 2 to 20 ng/mL. The derived prognostic score was then validated in 1064 
patients from 22 community practice and academic urology clinic sites in the
United States. Eligible participants included PCA-free men, 50 years or older,
scheduled for an initial or repeated prostate needle biopsy due to suspicious
digital rectal examination (DRE) findings and/or PSA levels (limit range,
2.0-20.0 ng/mL).
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Evaluate the assay using the area under receiver
operating characteristic curve (AUC) in discrimination of GS7 or greater from GS6
and benign disease on initial biopsy.
RESULTS: In 255 men in the training target population (median age 62 years and
median PSA level 5.0 ng/mL, and initial biopsy), the urine exosome gene
expression assay plus SOC was associated with improved discrimination between GS7
or greater and GS6 and benign disease: AUC 0.77 (95% CI, 0.71-0.83) vs SOC AUC
0.66 (95% CI, 0.58-0.72) (P < .001). Independent validation in 519 patients'
urine exosome gene expression assay plus SOC AUC 0.73 (95% CI, 0.68-0.77) was
superior to SOC AUC 0.63 (95% CI, 0.58-0.68) (P < .001). Using a predefined cut
point, 138 of 519 (27%) biopsies would have been avoided, missing only 5% of
patients with dominant pattern 4 high-risk GS7 disease.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: This urine exosome gene expression assay is a
noninvasive, urinary 3-gene expression assay that discriminates high-grade (≥GS7)
from low-grade (GS6) cancer and benign disease. In this study, the urine exosome 
gene expression assay was associated with improved identification of patients
with higher-grade prostate cancer among men with elevated PSA levels and could
reduce the total number of unnecessary biopsies.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaoncol.2016.0097 
PMID: 27032035 


462. Sci Rep. 2016 Mar 31;6:23549. doi: 10.1038/srep23549.

Systematic quantification of HDR and NHEJ reveals effects of locus, nuclease, and
cell type on genome-editing.

Miyaoka Y(1), Berman JR(2), Cooper SB(2), Mayerl SJ(1), Chan AH(1), Zhang B(2),
Karlin-Neumann GA(2), Conklin BR(1,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Gladstone Institute of Cardiovascular Disease, San Francisco, California,
94158, USA. (2)Digital Biology Center, Bio-Rad Laboratories, Pleasanton,
California, 94588, USA. (3)Departments of Medicine and Cellular and Molecular
Pharmacology, University of California, San Francisco, California, 94143, USA.

Precise genome-editing relies on the repair of sequence-specific nuclease-induced
DNA nicking or double-strand breaks (DSBs) by homology-directed repair (HDR).
However, nonhomologous end-joining (NHEJ), an error-prone repair, acts
concurrently, reducing the rate of high-fidelity edits. The identification of
genome-editing conditions that favor HDR over NHEJ has been hindered by the lack 
of a simple method to measure HDR and NHEJ directly and simultaneously at
endogenous loci. To overcome this challenge, we developed a novel, rapid, digital
PCR-based assay that can simultaneously detect one HDR or NHEJ event out of 1,000
copies of the genome. Using this assay, we systematically monitored
genome-editing outcomes of CRISPR-associated protein 9 (Cas9), Cas9 nickases,
catalytically dead Cas9 fused to FokI, and transcription activator-like effector 
nuclease at three disease-associated endogenous gene loci in HEK293T cells, HeLa 
cells, and human induced pluripotent stem cells. Although it is widely thought
that NHEJ generally occurs more often than HDR, we found that more HDR than NHEJ 
was induced under multiple conditions. Surprisingly, the HDR/NHEJ ratios were
highly dependent on gene locus, nuclease platform, and cell type. The new assay
system, and our findings based on it, will enable mechanistic studies of
genome-editing and help improve genome-editing technology.

DOI: 10.1038/srep23549 
PMCID: PMC4814844
PMID: 27030102  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Virol J. 2016 Mar 31;13:54. doi: 10.1186/s12985-016-0509-3.

Development of real-time reverse transcriptase qPCR assays for the detection of
Punta Toro virus and Pichinde virus.

Stefan CP(1), Chase K(1), Coyne S(1), Kulesh DA(1), Minogue TD(1), Koehler JW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Diagnostic Systems Division, United States Army Medical Research Institute of 
Infectious Disease, Fort Detrick, MD, USA. (2)Diagnostic Systems Division, United
States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Disease, Fort Detrick, MD,
USA. jeff.w.koehler.ctr@mail.mil.

BACKGROUND: Research with high biocontainment pathogens such as Rift Valley fever
virus (RVFV) and Lassa virus (LASV) is expensive, potentially hazardous, and
limited to select institutions. Surrogate pathogens such as Punta Toro virus
(PTV) for RVFV infection and Pichinde virus (PICV) for LASV infection allow
research to be performed under more permissive BSL-2 conditions. Although used as
infection models, PTV and PICV have no standard real-time RT-qPCR assays to
detect and quantify pathogenesis. PTV is also a human pathogen, making a
standardized detection assay essential for biosurveillance. Here, we developed
and characterized two real-time RT-qPCR assays for PICV and PTV by optimizing
assay conditions and measuring the limit of detection (LOD) and performance in
multiple clinical matrices.
METHODS: Total nucleic acid from virus-infected Vero E6 cells was used to
optimize TaqMan-minor groove binder (MGB) real-time RT-qPCR assays. A 10-fold
dilution series of nucleic acid was used to perform analytical experiments with
60 replicates used to confirm assay LODs. Serum and whole blood spiked with
10-fold dilutions of PTV and PICV virus were assessed as matrices in a mock
clinical context. The Cq, or cycle at which the fluoresce of each sample first
crosses a threshold line, was determined using the second derivative method using
Roche LightCycler 480 software version 1.5.1. Digital droplet PCR (ddPCR) was
utilized to quantitatively determine RNA target counts/μl for PTV and PICV.
RESULTS: Optimized PTV and PICV assays had LODs of 1000 PFU/ml and 100 PFU/ml,
respectively, and this LOD was confirmed in 60/60 (PTV) and 58/60 (PICV) positive
replicates. Preliminary mock clinical LODs remained consistent in serum and whole
blood for PTV and PICV at 1000 PFU/ml and 100 PFU/ml. An exclusivity panel showed
no cross reaction with near neighbors.
CONCLUSIONS: PTV and PICV Taq-man MGB based real-time RT-qPCR assays developed
here showed relevant sensitivity and reproducibility in samples extracted from a 
variety of clinical matrices. These assays will be useful as a standard by
researchers for future experiments utilizing PTV and PICV as infection models,
offering the ability to track infection and viral replication kinetics during
research studies.

DOI: 10.1186/s12985-016-0509-3 
PMCID: PMC4815133
PMID: 27029488  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Virchows Arch. 2016 Jun;468(6):675-86. doi: 10.1007/s00428-016-1925-x. Epub 2016 
Mar 30.

Expression of cell cycle markers is predictive of the response to primary
systemic therapy of locally advanced breast cancer.

Tőkés T(1), Tőkés AM(2,)(3), Szentmártoni G(1), Kiszner G(4), Madaras L(3), Kulka
J(3), Krenács T(2,)(4), Dank M(5).

Author information: 
(1)1st Department of Internal Medicine, Oncological Division, Semmelweis
University, Tömő utca 25-29, 4th floor, Budapest, 1083, Hungary. (2)MTA-SE Tumor 
Progression Research Group, 2nd Department of Pahtology, Semmelweis University,
Üllői út 93, Budapest, 1091, Hungary. (3)2nd Department of Pathology, Semmelweis 
University, Üllői út 93, Budapest, 1091, Hungary. (4)1st Department of Pathology 
and Experimental Cancer Research, Semmelweis University, Üllői út 26, Budapest,
1085, Hungary. (5)1st Department of Internal Medicine, Oncological Division,
Semmelweis University, Tömő utca 25-29, 4th floor, Budapest, 1083, Hungary.
phd.se.oncology@gmail.com.

We aimed to analyze to what extent expression of four cell cycle regulation
markers-minichromosome maintenance protein (MCM2), Ki-67, cyclin A, and
phosphohistone-H3 (PHH3)-predict response to primary systemic therapy in terms of
pathological complete remission (pCR). In search of an accurate and reproducible 
scoring method, we compared computer-assisted (CA) and routine visual assessment 
(VA) of immunoreactivity. We included 57 patients with breast cancer in the
study. The cell cycle markers were detected using immunohistochemistry on
pre-therapy core biopsy samples. Parallel CA (validated by manual labeling) and
standard VA were performed and compared for diagnostic agreement and predictive
value for pCR. CA and VA results were dichotomized based on receiver operating
characteristic analysis defined optimal cut-off values. "High" was defined by
staining scores above the optimal cut-off, while "low" had staining scores below 
the optimal cut-off. The CA method resulted in significantly lower values for
Ki-67 and MCM2 compared to VA (mean difference, -3.939 and -4.323). Diagnostic
agreement was highest for cyclin A and PHH3 (-0.586 and -0.666, respectively).
Regardless of the method (CA/VA) used, all tested markers were predictive of pCR.
Optimal cut-off-based dichotomization improved diagnostic agreement between the
CA and VA methods for every marker, in particular for MCM2 (κ = 1, p < 0.000).
Cyclin A displayed excellent agreement (κ = 0.925; p < 0.000), while Ki-67 and
PHH3 showed good agreement (κ = 0.789, p < 0.000 and κ = 0.794, p < 0.000,
respectively). We found all cell cycle markers (Ki-67, MCM2, cyclin A, and PHH3) 
predictive of pCR. Diagnostic agreement between CA and VA was better at lower
staining scores but improved after optimal cut-off-based dichotomization.

DOI: 10.1007/s00428-016-1925-x 
PMID: 27026269  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. J Vis Exp. 2016 Mar 9;(109). doi: 10.3791/53611.

A Duplex Digital PCR Assay for Simultaneous Quantification of the Enterococcus
spp. and the Human Fecal-associated HF183 Marker in Waters.

Cao Y(1), Raith MR(2), Griffith JF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Southern California Costal Water Research Project 
Authority; yipingc@sccwrp.org. (2)Department of Microbiology, Southern California
Costal Water Research Project Authority. (3)Department of Microbiology, Southern 
California Costal Water Research Project Authority; johng@sccwrp.org.

This manuscript describes a duplex digital PCR assay (EntHF183 dPCR) for
simultaneous quantification of Enterococcus spp. and the human fecal-associated
HF183 marker. The EntHF183 duplex dPCR (referred as EntHF183 dPCR hereon) assay
uses the same primer and probe sequences as its published individual quantitative
PCR (qPCR) counterparts. Likewise, the same water filtration and DNA extraction
procedures as performed prior to qPCR are followed prior to running dPCR.
However, the duplex dPCR assay has several advantages over the qPCR assays. Most 
important, the dPCR assay eliminates the need for running a standard curve and
hence, the associated bias and variability, by direct quantification of its
targets. In addition, while duplexing (i.e., simultaneous quantification)
Enterococcus and HF183 in qPCR often leads to severe underestimation of the less 
abundant target in a sample, dPCR provides consistent quantification of both
targets, whether quantified individually or simultaneously in the same reaction. 
The dPCR assay is also able to tolerate PCR inhibitor concentrations that are one
to two orders of magnitude higher than those tolerated by qPCR. These advantages 
make the EntHF183 dPCR assay particularly attractive because it simultaneously
provides accurate and repeatable information on both general and human-associated
fecal contamination in environmental waters without the need to run two separate 
qPCR assays. Despite its advantages over qPCR, the upper quantification limit of 
the dPCR assay with currently available instrumentation is approximately four
orders of magnitude lower than that achievable by qPCR. Consequently, dilution is
needed for measurement of high concentrations of target organisms such as those
typically observed following sewage spills.

DOI: 10.3791/53611 
PMID: 27023488  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. J Microbiol Methods. 2016 Jun;125:19-27. doi: 10.1016/j.mimet.2016.03.012. Epub
2016 Mar 26.

Optimisation of a droplet digital PCR assay for the diagnosis of Schistosoma
japonicum infection: A duplex approach with DNA binding dye chemistry.

Weerakoon KG(1), Gordon CA(2), Gobert GN(2), Cai P(2), McManus DP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Parasitology Laboratory, QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, 
Brisbane, Australia; School of Public Health, University of Queensland, Brisbane,
Australia; Department of Parasitology, Faculty of Medicine and Allied Sciences,
Rajarata University of Sri Lanka, Saliyapura, Sri Lanka. Electronic address:
Kosala.Weerakoon@qimrberghofer.edu.au. (2)Molecular Parasitology Laboratory, QIMR
Berghofer Medical Research Institute, Brisbane, Australia.

Schistosomiasis is a chronically debilitating helminth infection with a
significant socio-economic and public health impact. Accurate diagnostics play a 
pivotal role in achieving current schistosomiasis control and elimination goals. 
However, many of the current diagnostic procedures, which rely on detection of
schistosome eggs, have major limitations including lack of accuracy and the
inability to detect pre-patent infections. DNA-based detection methods provide a 
viable alternative to the current tests commonly used for schistosomiasis
diagnosis. Here we describe the optimisation of a novel droplet digital PCR
(ddPCR) duplex assay for the diagnosis of Schistosoma japonicum infection which
provides improved detection sensitivity and specificity. The assay involves the
amplification of two specific and abundant target gene sequences in S. japonicum;
a retrotransposon (SjR2) and a portion of a mitochondrial gene (nad1). The assay 
detected target sequences in different sources of schistosome DNA isolated from
adult worms, schistosomules and eggs, and exhibits a high level of specificity,
thereby representing an ideal tool for the detection of low levels of parasite
DNA in different clinical samples including parasite cell free DNA in the host
circulation and other bodily fluids. Moreover, being quantitative, the assay can 
be used to determine parasite infection intensity and, could provide an important
tool for the detection of low intensity infections in low prevalence
schistosomiasis-endemic areas.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mimet.2016.03.012 
PMID: 27021661 


467. Anal Chim Acta. 2016 Apr 15;916:60-6. doi: 10.1016/j.aca.2016.02.020. Epub 2016
Feb 22.

Development and application of absolute quantitative detection by duplex
chamber-based digital PCR of genetically modified maize events without
pretreatment steps.

Zhu P(1), Fu W(2), Wang C(2), Du Z(3), Huang K(4), Zhu S(5), Xu W(6).

Author information: 
(1)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Food Nutrition and Human Health,
College of Food Science & Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural University,
Beijing, 100083, China. (2)The Institute of Plant Quarantine, Chinese Academy of 
Inspection and Quarantine, Beijing, 100029, China. (3)Guangxi Entry-Exit
Inspection and Quarantine Bureau, Guangxi, 530028, China. (4)Beijing Advanced
Innovation Center for Food Nutrition and Human Health, College of Food Science & 
Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing, 100083, China;
Beijing Laboratory for Food Quality and Safety, College of Food Science and
Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing, 100083, China.
(5)The Institute of Plant Quarantine, Chinese Academy of Inspection and
Quarantine, Beijing, 100029, China. Electronic address: zhushf0421@163.com.
(6)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Food Nutrition and Human Health,
College of Food Science & Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural University,
Beijing, 100083, China; Beijing Laboratory for Food Quality and Safety, College
of Food Science and Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural University,
Beijing, 100083, China. Electronic address: xuwentaoboy@sina.com.

The possibility of the absolute quantitation of GMO events by digital PCR was
recently reported. However, most absolute quantitation methods based on the
digital PCR required pretreatment steps. Meanwhile, singleplex detection could
not meet the demand of the absolute quantitation of GMO events that is based on
the ratio of foreign fragments and reference genes. Thus, to promote the absolute
quantitative detection of different GMO events by digital PCR, we developed a
quantitative detection method based on duplex digital PCR without pretreatment.
Moreover, we tested 7 GMO events in our study to evaluate the fitness of our
method. The optimized combination of foreign and reference primers, limit of
quantitation (LOQ), limit of detection (LOD) and specificity were validated. The 
results showed that the LOQ of our method for different GMO events was 0.5%,
while the LOD is 0.1%. Additionally, we found that duplex digital PCR could
achieve the detection results with lower RSD compared with singleplex digital
PCR. In summary, the duplex digital PCR detection system is a simple and stable
way to achieve the absolute quantitation of different GMO events. Moreover, the
LOQ and LOD indicated that this method is suitable for the daily detection and
quantitation of GMO events.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aca.2016.02.020 
PMID: 27016439  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Analyst. 2016 Jun 21;141(12):3821-31. doi: 10.1039/c6an00164e. Epub 2016 Mar 24.

Digital PCR using micropatterned superporous absorbent array chips.

Wang Y(1), Southard KM, Zeng Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Kansas, Lawrence, KS 66045, USA.
yongz@ku.edu.

Digital PCR (dPCR) is an emerging technology for genetic analysis and clinical
diagnostics. To facilitate the widespread application of dPCR, here we developed 
a new micropatterned superporous absorbent array chip (μSAAC) which consists of
an array of microwells packed with highly porous agarose microbeads. The packed
beads construct a hierarchically porous microgel which confers superior water
adsorption capacity to enable spontaneous filling of PDMS microwells for fluid
compartmentalization without the need of sophisticated microfluidic equipment and
operation expertise. Using large λ-DNA as the model template, we validated the
μSAAC for stochastic partitioning and quantitative digital detection of DNA
molecules. Furthermore, as a proof-of-concept, we conducted dPCR detection and
single-molecule sequencing of a mutation prevalent in blood cancer, the
chromosomal translocation t(14;18), demonstrating the feasibility of the μSAAC
for analysis of disease-associated mutations. These experiments were carried out 
using the standard molecular biology techniques and instruments. Because of its
low cost, ease of fabrication, and equipment-free liquid partitioning, the μSAAC 
is readily adaptable to general lab settings, which could significantly
facilitate the widespread application of dPCR technology in basic research and
clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1039/c6an00164e 
PMCID: PMC4899130 [Available on 2017-06-21]
PMID: 27010726 


469. Acta Ophthalmol. 2016 Aug;94(5):463-70. doi: 10.1111/aos.13007. Epub 2016 Mar 24.

BRAF mutations in conjunctival melanoma: investigation of incidence,
clinicopathological features, prognosis and paired premalignant lesions.

Larsen AC(1,)(2), Dahl C(3), Dahmcke CM(3), Lade-Keller J(4), Siersma VD(5), Toft
PB(6), Coupland SE(7), Prause JU(1), Guldberg P(3), Heegaard S(2,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience and Pharmacology, University of Copenhagen,
Copenhagen, Denmark. (2)Department of Pathology - Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen,
Denmark. (3)Danish Cancer Society, Research Center, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Institute of Pathology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark. (5)The
Research Unit and Section of General Practice, Institute of Public Health,
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark. (6)Department of Ophthalmology,
Rigshospitalet - Glostrup Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark. (7)Division of
Pathology, Department of Molecular and Clinical Medicine, Royal Liverpool
University Hospital, Liverpool, UK.

PURPOSE: To investigate incidence, clinicopathological features and prognosis of 
BRAF-mutated conjunctival melanoma in Denmark. Furthermore, to determine BRAF
mutations in paired premalignant lesions and evaluate immunohistochemical BRAF
V600E oncoprotein detection.
METHODS: Data from 139 patients with conjunctival melanoma (1960-2012) were
collected. Archived conjunctival melanoma samples and premalignant lesions were
analysed for BRAF mutations using droplet digital polymerase chain reaction
(PCR). Results were associated with clinicopathological features and compared
with BRAF V600E oncoprotein stainings.
RESULTS: The overall incidence of conjunctival melanoma (0.5
cases/1 000 000/year) increased during the study period with 0.13
cases/1 000 000/10 years. The increase comprised a higher proportion of patients 
aged >65 years, epibulbar tumours and tumours developed from a primary acquired
melanosis with atypia. BRAF mutations were identified in 39 of 111 (35%) cases.
The rate ratio of BRAF-mutated versus BRAF-wild-type melanoma did not change over
time. BRAF mutations were associated with T1 stage (p = 0.007), young age
(p = 0.001), male gender (p = 0.02), sun-exposed location (p = 0.01),
mixed/non-pigmented tumour colour (p = 0.02) and nevus origin (p = 0.005), but
did not associate with prognosis. BRAF status in conjunctival melanoma and paired
premalignant lesions corresponded in 19 of 20 cases. Immunohistochemistry
detected BRAF V600E mutations with a sensitivity of 0.94 and a specificity of
1.00 in newer conjunctival melanoma samples (2000-2012, n = 47).
CONCLUSION: The incidence of conjunctival melanoma increased in Denmark over
50 years. The proportion of BRAF-mutated conjunctival melanoma was constant. BRAF
mutations were identified as early events in conjunctival melanoma, associated
with a distinct clinicopathological profile, similar to BRAF-mutated cutaneous
melanoma. Immunohistochemical detection of BRAF can be used to assess BRAF V600E 
mutations.

© 2016 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley &
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.13007 
PMID: 27009410  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Asian Pac J Allergy Immunol. 2016 Sep;34(3):217-222.

Tumour necrosis factor α polymorphism (TNF-308α G/A) in association with asthma
related phenotypes and air pollutants among children in KwaZulu-Natal.

Makamure MT(1), Reddy P(1), Chuturgoon A(2), Naidoo RN(3), Mentz G(4), Batterman 
S(4), Robins TG(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Community Health Studies, Durban University of Technology,
Durban, South Africa. (2)Discipline of Medical Biochemistry, School of Laboratory
Medicine, University of KwaZulu-Natal, Durban, South Africa. (3)Discipline of
Occupational and Environmental Health, School of Nursing and Public Health,
University of KwaZulu-Natal, Durban, South Africa. (4)Department of Environmental
Health Sciences, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.

BACKGROUND: The study of gene-environment interactions enables us to further
understand the pathogenesis of asthma and inflammation. The TNF-α gene has been
associated with airway pathology in asthma but there is limited information in
relation to pollutant exposure and the TNF-α 308G/A polymorphism.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the risk conferred by the TNF-α 308(G/A) polymorphism on 
respiratory outcome and to evaluate whether the association between exposure to
ambient air pollutants such as SO2, NO2, NO, and PM10 and variation in lung
function measures is modified by genotype.
METHODS: The sample comprised 129 African children (between 9-11 years old). A
questionnaire based on guidelines from the British Medical Research Council and
the American Thoracic Society was administered to all caregivers to evaluate the 
prevalence of respiratory symptoms. Atopy was evaluated by skin prick testing.
Bihourly measures of lung function (spirometry) were collected at school five
days per week over three week periods in each of four seasons (2004-2005) using
digital hand-held devices. During each of the four intensive 3-week phases,
gaseous air pollutant concentrations were monitored continuously. Polymerase
Chain Reaction-Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism (PCR-PFLP) analysis was
used to detect the TNF-α 308 genotype and plasma TNF-α levels were measured using
the human TNF-α Max Standard™ Enzyme-linked immuno-absorbent assay (ELISA) kit.
RESULTS: The TNF-α variant A allele was common among this sample of African
children (40% with an allelic frequency of 0.24). There was no significant
association with the TNF-α G/A polymorphism and any respiratory linked phenotype,
nor cytokine levels. However, when exposure to pollutants were analyzed with
genotypic and phenotypic data, we found relatively modest interaction effects for
the TNF-α 308 genotype. GEE models showed that children with the TNF-α 308 A
allele had increased deterioration of lung function post pollution exposure to
SO2 [β=2.62, CI:0.51-4.71, p=0.02 and pint=0.03] and NO [β=3.28, CI:0.68-5.89,
p=0.01, pint=0.03].
CONCLUSION: The TNF-α 308 (G/A) polymorphism may be associated with increased
pollutant-associated effects on FEV1 intraday variability for both SO2 and NO.
The A allele may increase susceptibility to the adverse effects of air
pollutants.

DOI: 10.12932/AP0677 
PMID: 27001655 


471. Int J Mol Sci. 2016 Mar 18;17(3):402. doi: 10.3390/ijms17030402.

A Novel Pretreatment-Free Duplex Chamber Digital PCR Detection System for the
Absolute Quantitation of GMO Samples.

Zhu P(1), Wang C(2), Huang K(3,)(4), Luo Y(5,)(6), Xu W(7,)(8).

Author information: 
(1)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Food Nutrition and Human Health,
College of Food Science &amp; Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural
University, Beijing 100083, China. zhupengyu3638@163.com. (2)Beijing Advanced
Innovation Center for Food Nutrition and Human Health, College of Food Science
&amp; Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100083,
China. italy10.wang@gmail.com. (3)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Food
Nutrition and Human Health, College of Food Science &amp; Nutritional
Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100083, China.
huangkl009@sina.com. (4)Beijing Laboratory for Food Quality and Safety, College
of Food Science and Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural University,
Beijing 100083, China. huangkl009@sina.com. (5)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center
for Food Nutrition and Human Health, College of Food Science &amp; Nutritional
Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100083, China.
lyb@cau.edu.cn. (6)Beijing Laboratory for Food Quality and Safety, College of
Food Science and Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing 
100083, China. lyb@cau.edu.cn. (7)Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Food
Nutrition and Human Health, College of Food Science &amp; Nutritional
Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100083, China.
xuwentao@cau.edu.cn. (8)Beijing Laboratory for Food Quality and Safety, College
of Food Science and Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural University,
Beijing 100083, China. xuwentao@cau.edu.cn.

Digital polymerase chain reaction (PCR) has developed rapidly since it was first 
reported in the 1990s. However, pretreatments are often required during
preparation for digital PCR, which can increase operation error. The single-plex 
amplification of both the target and reference genes may cause uncertainties due 
to the different reaction volumes and the matrix effect. In the current study, a 
quantitative detection system based on the pretreatment-free duplex chamber
digital PCR was developed. The dynamic range, limit of quantitation (LOQ),
sensitivity and specificity were evaluated taking the GA21 event as the
experimental object. Moreover, to determine the factors that may influence the
stability of the duplex system, we evaluated whether the pretreatments, the
primary and secondary structures of the probes and the SNP effect influence the
detection. The results showed that the LOQ was 0.5% and the sensitivity was 0.1%.
We also found that genome digestion and single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)
sites affect the detection results, whereas the unspecific hybridization within
different probes had little side effect. This indicated that the detection system
was suited for both chamber-based and droplet-based digital PCR. In conclusion,
we have provided a simple and flexible way of achieving absolute quantitation for
genetically modified organism (GMO) genome samples using commercial digital PCR
detection systems.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms17030402 
PMCID: PMC4813257
PMID: 26999129  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Mol Cell. 2016 Mar 17;61(6):914-24. doi: 10.1016/j.molcel.2016.02.030.

Digital Quantification of Proteins and mRNA in Single Mammalian Cells.

Albayrak C(1), Jordi CA(1), Zechner C(1), Lin J(1), Bichsel CA(1), Khammash M(1),
Tay S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biosystems Science and Engineering, ETH Zürich, 4058 Basel,
Switzerland. (2)Department of Biosystems Science and Engineering, ETH Zürich,
4058 Basel, Switzerland; Institute for Molecular Engineering, University of
Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. Electronic address: tays@uchicago.edu.

Comment in
    Mol Cell. 2016 Mar 17;61(6):791-2.

Absolute quantification of macromolecules in single cells is critical for
understanding and modeling biological systems that feature cellular
heterogeneity. Here we show extremely sensitive and absolute quantification of
both proteins and mRNA in single mammalian cells by a very practical workflow
that combines proximity ligation assay (PLA) and digital PCR. This digital PLA
method has femtomolar sensitivity, which enables the quantification of very small
protein concentration changes over its entire 3-log dynamic range, a quality
necessary for accounting for single-cell heterogeneity. We counted both
endogenous (CD147) and exogenously expressed (GFP-p65) proteins from hundreds of 
single cells and determined the correlation between CD147 mRNA and the protein it
encodes. Using our data, a stochastic two-state model of the central dogma was
constructed and verified using joint mRNA/protein distributions, allowing us to
estimate transcription burst sizes and extrinsic noise strength and calculate the
transcription and translation rate constants in single mammalian cells.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molcel.2016.02.030 
PMID: 26990994  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Cancer. 2016 May 15;122(10):1544-51. doi: 10.1002/cncr.29976. Epub 2016 Mar 17.

Detection of human papillomavirus type 16 in oropharyngeal squamous cell
carcinoma using droplet digital polymerase chain reaction.

Biron VL(1), Kostiuk M(1), Isaac A(1), Puttagunta L(2), O'Connell DA(1), Harris
J(1), Côté DW(1), Seikaly H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery
University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. (2)Laboratory Medicine and
Pathology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.

Comment in
    Cancer. 2016 May 15;122(10 ):1502-4.

BACKGROUND: The incidence of oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma caused by
oncogenic HPV (HPV-OPSCC) is rising worldwide. HPV-OPSCC is commonly diagnosed by
RT-qPCR of HPV-16 E6 and E7 oncoproteins or by cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 
2A, multiple tumor suppressor 1 (p16) immunohistochemistry (IHC). Droplet digital
PCR (ddPCR) has been recently reported as ultra-sensitive and highly precise
method of nucleic acid quantification for biomarker analysis. We aimed to
validate this method for the detection of HPV-16 E6 and E7 in HPV-OPSCC.
METHODS: Participants were recruited from January 2015-November 2015 at initial
presentation to the University of Alberta Head and Neck Oncology Clinic. RNA was 
extracted, purified and quantified from prospectively collected participant
tissues, and ddPCR was performed with fluorescent probes detecting HPV-16 E6 and 
E7. Results from ddPCR were compared with p16 IHC performed by clinical pathology
as standard of care.
RESULTS: Head and neck tissues were prospectively obtained from 68 participants
including 29 patients with OPSCC, 29 patients with non-OPSCC and 10 patients
without carcinoma. 79.2% of patients with OPSCC were p16 positive. The
sensitivity and specificity of ddPCR HPV E6/E7 compared with p16 IHC in OPSCC was
91.3 and 100%, respectively. The amount of target RNA used was ≤1 ng, 20-50 times
lower than reported by other for RT-qPCR HPV E6/E7.
CONCLUSIONS: The ddPCR of HPV E6/E7 is a novel and highly specific method of
detecting HPV-16 in OPSCC. Cancer 2016;122:1544-51. © 2016 American Cancer
Society.

© 2016 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.29976 
PMID: 26989832  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Oncotarget. 2016 Apr 12;7(15):20810-24. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.8021.

Quantification of mutant alleles in circulating tumor DNA can predict survival in
lung cancer.

Yang X(1), Zhuo M(1), Ye X(2), Bai H(1), Wang Z(1), Sun Y(2), Zhao J(1), An T(1),
Duan J(1), Wu M(1), Wang J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic Medical Oncology, Key Laboratory of Carcinogenesis and 
Translational Research (Ministry of Education), Peking University Cancer Hospital
and Institute, Beijing, China. (2)Asia and Emerging Markets Innovative Medicine
of AstraZeneca R & D, Shanghai, China.

PURPOSE: We aimed to investigate the feasibility of droplet digital PCR (ddPCR)
for the quantitative and dynamic detection of EGFR mutations and next generation 
sequencing (NGS) for screening EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs)
resistance-relevant mutations in circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) from advanced lung
adenocarcinoma (ADC) patients.
RESULTS: Detection limit of EGFR mutation in ctDNA by ddPCR was 0.04%. Taking the
EGFR mutation in tumor tissue as the golden standard, the concordance of EGFR
mutations detected in ctDNA was 74% (54/73). Patients with EGFR mutation in ctDNA
(n = 54) superior progression-free survival (PFS, median, 12.6 vs. 6.7 months, P 
< 0.001) and overall survival (OS, median, 35.6 vs. 23.8 months, P = 0.028)
compared to those with EGFR wild type in ctDNA (n = 19). Patients with high
EGFR-mutated abundance in ctDNA (> 5.15%) showed better PFS compared to those
with low EGFR mutated abundance (≤ 5.15%) (PFS, median, 15.4 vs. 11.1 months, P =
0.021). NGS results showed that 66.6% (8/12) total mutational copy number were
elevated and 76.5% (26/34) mutual mutation frequency increased after disease
progression.
METHODS: Seventy-three advanced ADC patients with tumor tissues carrying EGFR
mutations and their matched pre- and post-EGFR-TKIs plasma samples were enrolled 
in this study. Absolute quantities of plasma EGFR mutant and wild-type alleles
were measured by ddPCR. Multi-genes testing was performed using NGS in 12
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Dynamic and quantitative analysis of EGFR mutation in ctDNA could
guide personalized therapy for advanced ADC. NGS shows good performance in
multiple genes testing especially novel and uncommon genes.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.8021 
PMCID: PMC4991494
PMID: 26989078 


475. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2016;882:259-76. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-22909-6_11.

Circulating Plasma Tumor DNA.

Parsons HA(1), Beaver JA(1), Park BH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine,
Bunting and Blaustein Building, 1650 Orleans Street, Room 151, 21287, Baltimore, 
MD, USA. (2)Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Johns Hopkins School of
Medicine, Bunting and Blaustein Building, 1650 Orleans Street, Room 151, 21287,
Baltimore, MD, USA. bpark2@jhmi.edu.

Circulating cell-free DNA (ccfDNA)--first identified in 1947--is "naked" DNA that
is free-floating in the blood, and derived from both normal and diseased cells.
In the 1970s, scientists observed that patients with cancer had elevated levels
of ccfDNA as compared to their healthy, cancer-free counterparts. The maternal
fetal medicine community first developed techniques to identify the small
fraction of fetal-derived ccfDNA for diagnostic purposes. Similarly, due to the
presence of tumor-specific (somatic) variations in all cancers, the fraction of
circulating cell-free plasma tumor DNA (ptDNA) in the larger pool of ccfDNA
derived from normal cells can serve as extremely specific blood-based biomarkers 
for a patient's cancer. In theory this "liquid biopsy" can provide a real-time
assessment of molecular tumor genotype (qualitative) and existing tumor burden
(quantitative). Historically, the major limitation for ptDNA as a biomarker has
been related to a low detection rate; however, current and developing techniques 
have improved sensitivity dramatically. In this chapter, we discuss these
methods, including digital polymerase chain reaction and various approaches to
tagged next-generation sequencing.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-22909-6_11 
PMID: 26987539  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. PLoS Genet. 2016 Mar 15;12(3):e1005939. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1005939.
eCollection 2016.

Age-Related and Heteroplasmy-Related Variation in Human mtDNA Copy Number.

Wachsmuth M(1), Hübner A(1), Li M(2), Madea B(3), Stoneking M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Evolutionary Genetics, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology, Leipzig, Germany. (2)Fondation Mérieux, Lyon, France. (3)Institut
für Rechtsmedizin, Universitätsklinikum Bonn, Bonn, Germany.

The mitochondrial (mt) genome is present in many copies in human cells, and
intra-individual variation in mtDNA sequences is known as heteroplasmy. Recent
studies found that heteroplasmies are highly tissue-specific, site-specific, and 
allele-specific, however the functional implications have not been explored. This
study investigates variation in mtDNA copy numbers (mtCN) in 12 different tissues
obtained at autopsy from 152 individuals (ranging in age from 3 days to 96
years). Three different methods to estimate mtCN were compared: shotgun
sequencing (in 4 tissues), capture-enriched sequencing (in 12 tissues) and
droplet digital PCR (ddPCR, in 2 tissues). The highest precision in mtCN
estimation was achieved using shotgun sequencing data. However,
capture-enrichment data provide reliable estimates of relative (albeit not
absolute) mtCNs. Comparisons of mtCN from different tissues of the same
individual revealed that mtCNs in different tissues are, with few exceptions,
uncorrelated. Hence, each tissue of an individual seems to regulate mtCN in a
tissue-related rather than an individual-dependent manner. Skeletal muscle (SM)
samples showed an age-related decrease in mtCN that was especially pronounced in 
males, while there was an age-related increase in mtCN for liver (LIV) samples.
MtCN in SM samples was significantly negatively correlated with both the total
number of heteroplasmic sites and with minor allele frequency (MAF) at two
heteroplasmic sites, 408 and 16327. Heteroplasmies at both sites are highly
specific for SM, accumulate with aging and are part of functional elements that
regulate mtDNA replication. These data support the hypothesis that selection
acting on these heteroplasmic sites is reducing mtCN in SM of older individuals.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1005939 
PMCID: PMC4792396
PMID: 26978189  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Epigenetics. 2016 May 3;11(5):363-80. doi: 10.1080/15592294.2016.1163454. Epub
2016 Mar 11.

The DNA methylation profile of activated human natural killer cells.

Wiencke JK(1), Butler R(2), Hsuang G(1), Eliot M(2), Kim S(2), Sepulveda MA(3),
Siegel D(3), Houseman EA(4), Kelsey KT(2,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Neurological Surgery , University of California San Francisco 
, San Francisco , CA. (2)b Brown University , Department of Epidemiology ,
Providence , RI. (3)d Janssen Oncology Therapeutic Area, Janssen Research and
Development, LLC, Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson , 1400 Welsh and 
McKean Roads, Spring House , PA. (4)e University of Oregon, College of Public
Health and Human Science , Corvallis , OR. (5)c Department of Laboratory Medicine
and Pathology , Providence , RI.

Natural killer (NK) cells are now recognized to exhibit characteristics akin to
cells of the adaptive immune system. The generation of adaptive memory is linked 
to epigenetic reprogramming including alterations in DNA methylation. The study
herein found reproducible genome wide DNA methylation changes associated with
human NK cell activation. Activation led predominately to CpG hypomethylation
(81% of significant loci). Bioinformatics analysis confirmed that non-coding and 
gene-associated differentially methylated sites (DMS) are enriched for immune
related functions (i.e., immune cell activation). Known DNA methylation-regulated
immune loci were also identified in activated NK cells (e.g., TNFA, LTA, IL13,
CSF2). Twenty-one loci were designated high priority and further investigated as 
potential markers of NK activation. BHLHE40 was identified as a viable candidate 
for which a droplet digital PCR assay for demethylation was developed. The assay 
revealed high demethylation in activated NK cells and low demethylation in naïve 
NK, T- and B-cells. We conclude the NK cell methylome is plastic with potential
for remodeling. The differentially methylated region signature of activated NKs
revealed similarities with T cell activation, but also provided unique biomarker 
candidates of NK activation, which could be useful in epigenome-wide association 
studies to interrogate the role of NK subtypes in global methylation changes
associated with exposures and/or disease states.

DOI: 10.1080/15592294.2016.1163454 
PMCID: PMC4889279
PMID: 26967308 


478. J Neurooncol. 2016 May;128(1):93-100. doi: 10.1007/s11060-016-2081-5. Epub 2016
Mar 9.

Tumor DNA in cerebral spinal fluid reflects clinical course in a patient with
melanoma leptomeningeal brain metastases.

Li Y(1), Pan W(2), Connolly ID(1), Reddy S(3), Nagpal S(4), Quake S(5,)(6),
Gephart MH(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Stanford University, MSLS, 1201 Welch Rd, P151,
Stanford, CA, 94305-5487, USA. (2)Department of Bioengineering, James H. Clark
Center, Stanford University, 318 Campus Drive, E300, Stanford, CA, 94305-5487,
USA. (3)Department of Medicine, Cancer Center, Stanford University, 875 Blake
Wilbur Dr, CC2232, Stanford, CA, 94305-5487, USA. (4)Department of Neurology,
Cancer Center, Stanford University, 875 Blake Wilbur Dr, CC2221, Stanford, CA,
94305-5487, USA. (5)Department of Bioengineering, James H. Clark Center, Stanford
University, 318 Campus Drive, E300, Stanford, CA, 94305-5487, USA.
quake@stanford.edu. (6)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, MD, USA.
quake@stanford.edu. (7)Department of Neurosurgery, Stanford University, MSLS,
1205 Welch Rd, R307, Stanford, CA, 94305-5487, USA. mghayden@stanford.edu.

Cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) from brain tumor patients contains tumor cellular and
cell-free DNA (cfDNA), which provides a less-invasive and routinely accessible
method to obtain tumor genomic information. In this report, we used droplet
digital PCR to test mutant tumor DNA in CSF of a patient to monitor the treatment
response of metastatic melanoma leptomeningeal disease (LMD). The primary
melanoma was known to have a BRAF (V600E) mutation, and the patient was treated
with whole brain radiotherapy and BRAF inhibitors. We collected 9 CSF samples
over 6 months. The mutant cfDNA fraction gradually decreased from 53 % (time of
diagnosis) to 0 (time of symptom alleviation) over the first 6 time points. Three
months after clinical improvement, the patient returned with severe symptoms and 
the mutant cfDNA was again detected in CSF at high levels. The mutant DNA
fraction corresponded well with the patient's clinical response. We used whole
exome sequencing to examine the mutation profiles of the LMD tumor DNA in CSF
before therapeutic response and after disease relapse, and discovered a canonical
cancer mutation PTEN (R130*) at both time points. The cellular and cfDNA revealed
similar mutation profiles, suggesting cfDNA is representative of LMD cells. This 
study demonstrates the potential of using cellular or cfDNA in CSF to monitor
treatment response for LMD.

DOI: 10.1007/s11060-016-2081-5 
PMID: 26961773 


479. J Dent Res. 2016 Jul;95(7):769-75. doi: 10.1177/0022034516636853. Epub 2016 Mar
9.

Adiponectin Promotes Human Jaw Bone Marrow Stem Cell Osteogenesis.

Pu Y(1), Wu H(1), Lu S(2), Hu H(2), Li D(2), Wu Y(3), Tang Z(2).

Author information: 
(1)2nd Dental Center, Peking University School and Hospital of Stomatology,
Beijing, China Central Laboratory, Peking University School and Hospital of
Stomatology, Beijing, China. (2)2nd Dental Center, Peking University School and
Hospital of Stomatology, Beijing, China National Engineering Laboratory for
Digital and Material Technology of Stomatology, Peking University School and
Hospital of Stomatology, Beijing, China. (3)2nd Dental Center, Peking University 
School and Hospital of Stomatology, Beijing, China National Engineering
Laboratory for Digital and Material Technology of Stomatology, Peking University 
School and Hospital of Stomatology, Beijing, China yuweiwu@bjmu.edu.cn
tang_zhihui@live.cn.

Human jaw bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (h-JBMMSCs) are multipotent
progenitor cells with osteogenic differentiation potential. The relationship
between adiponectin (APN) and the metabolism of h-JBMMSCs has not been fully
elucidated, and the underlying mechanism remains unclear. The aim of the study
was to investigate the effect and mechanism of APN on h-JBMMSC metabolism.
h-JBMMSCs were obtained from the primary culture of human jaw bones and treated
with or without APN (1 µg/mL). Osteogenesis-related gene expression was evaluated
by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR), alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity
assay, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). To further investigate the 
signaling pathway, mechanistic studies were performed using Western blotting,
immunofluorescence, lentiviral transduction, and SB202190 (a specific p38
inhibitor). Alizarin Red staining showed that APN promoted h-JBMMSC osteogenesis.
Real-time PCR, ALP assay, and ELISA showed that ALP, osteocalcin (OCN),
osteopontin, and integrin-binding sialoprotein were up-regulated in APN-treated
cells compared to untreated controls. Immunofluorescence revealed that adaptor
protein containing a pleckstrin homology domain, phosphotyrosine domain, and
leucine zipper motif (APPL1) translocated from the nucleus to the cytoplasm with 
APN treatment. Additionally, the phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein
kinase (MAPK) increased over time with APN treatment. Moreover, knockdown of
APPL1 or p38 MAPK inhibition blocked the expression of APN-induced
calcification-related genes including ALP, Runt-related transcription factor 2
(RUNX2), and OCN. Furthermore, Alizarin Red staining of calcium nodes was not
increased by the knockdown of APPL1 or p38 inhibition. Our data suggest that this
regulation is mediated through the APPL1-p38 MAPK signaling pathway. These
findings collectively provide evidence that APN induces the osteogenesis of
h-JBMMSCs through APPL1-mediated p38 MAPK activation.

© International & American Associations for Dental Research 2016.

DOI: 10.1177/0022034516636853 
PMID: 26961489 


480. Dent Mater. 2016 May;32(5):e93-104. doi: 10.1016/j.dental.2016.01.003. Epub 2016 
Mar 5.

Cytotoxicity and anti-inflammatory effects of zinc ions and eugenol during
setting of ZOE in immortalized human oral keratinocytes grown as
three-dimensional spheroids.

Lee JH(1), Lee HH(2), Kim KN(3), Kim KM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department and Research Institute of Dental Biomaterials and Bioengineering,
BK21 PLUS Project, College of Dentistry, Yonsei University, Seoul, Republic of
Korea; Department of Biomaterials Science, College of Dentistry, Dankook
University, Cheonan, Republic of Korea; Institute of Tissue Regeneration
Engineering (ITREN), Dankook University, Cheonan, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Biomaterials Science, College of Dentistry, Dankook University, 
Cheonan, Republic of Korea; Institute of Tissue Regeneration Engineering (ITREN),
Dankook University, Cheonan, Republic of Korea. (3)Department and Research
Institute of Dental Biomaterials and Bioengineering, BK21 PLUS Project, College
of Dentistry, Yonsei University, Seoul, Republic of Korea. (4)Department and
Research Institute of Dental Biomaterials and Bioengineering, BK21 PLUS Project, 
College of Dentistry, Yonsei University, Seoul, Republic of Korea. Electronic
address: kmkim@yuhs.ac.

OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study is to assess the cytotoxic and
anti-inflammatory effects of ZOE cement during setting in two-dimensional (2D) or
three-dimensional (3D) cultures of immortalized human oral keratinocytes (IHOKs) 
with determining the extract components responsible for these effects.
METHODS: Extracts of mixed ZOE at different stages of setting were analyzed by a 
digital pH meter, ICP-MS, and GC-MS. Serial concentrations of extract and their
mixture of ZnCl2, ZnSO4·H2O, and eugenol liquid were added to the 2D and 3D IHOK 
cultures to determine the half maximal effective concentration in investigating
the cause of cytotoxicity by means of WST assay and to investigate mRNA
expression levels of inflammatory cytokines by RT-PCR.
RESULTS: Zn(2+) and eugenol (4-19 ppm) were detected in the extracts. In the
early setting stage, significant cytotoxicity was observed in the 2D and 3D IHOK 
cultures (P<0.05). The EC50 of Zn(2+) from ZnCl2 was 5-44 ppm in both cultures,
whereas the EC50 of eugenol was not detectable under 100 ppm. Along with the
lower levels of inflammatory cytokine gene expressions in the extract, treatment 
of the 2D IHOKs with Zn(2+) alone and treatment of the 3D IHOKs with Zn(2+) plus 
eugenol resulted in significantly lower expression levels of IL-1β, IL-6, and
IL-8 (P<0.05).
SIGNIFICANCE: The cytotoxic effect of ZOE on IHOKs was greater during the setting
stage owing to the presence of Zn(2+). The anti-inflammatory response to ZOE was 
induced by a combination of Zn(2+) and eugenol. Cytotoxic and anti-inflammatory
effects differed between the 2D and 3D IHOK cultures.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dental.2016.01.003 
PMID: 26960744 


481. Sci Rep. 2016 Mar 9;6:22985. doi: 10.1038/srep22985.

Ultra-sensitive droplet digital PCR for detecting a low-prevalence somatic GNAQ
mutation in Sturge-Weber syndrome.

Uchiyama Y(1,)(2), Nakashima M(1), Watanabe S(3), Miyajima M(4), Taguri M(5),
Miyatake S(1), Miyake N(1), Saitsu H(1), Mishima H(3), Kinoshita A(3), Arai H(4),
Yoshiura K(3), Matsumoto N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Genetics, Yokohama City University Graduate School of
Medicine, Yokohama, Japan. (2)Department of Medical and Clinical Science, Gunma
University Graduate School of Medicine, Gunma, Japan. (3)Department of Human
Genetics, Nagasaki University Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, Sakamoto,
Nagasaki, Japan. (4)Department of Neurosurgery, Juntendo University Graduate
School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. (5)Department of Biostatistics, Graduate School
of Medicine, Yokohama City University, Yokohama, Japan.

Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR), a method for measuring target nucleic acid sequence 
quantity, is useful for determining somatic mutation rates using TaqMan probes.
In this study, the detection limit of copy numbers of test DNA by ddPCR was
determined based on Poisson distribution. Peptide nucleic acid (PNA), which
strongly hybridises to target lesions, can inhibit target amplification by PCR.
Therefore, by combination of PCR with PNA and ddPCR (PNA-ddPCR), the detection
limit could be lowered. We reanalysed a somatic GNAQ mutation (c.548G > A) in
patients with Sturge-Weber syndrome (SWS) using ddPCR and PNA-ddPCR. Importantly,
among three patients previously found to be mutation negative by next-generation 
sequencing, two patients had the GNAQ mutation with a mutant allele frequency of 
less than 1%. Furthermore, we were able to find the same mutation in blood
leukocyte or saliva DNA derived from four out of 40 SWS patients. Vascular
anomalies and blood leukocytes originate from endothelial cells and
haemangioblasts, respectively, which are both of mesodermal origin. Therefore,
blood leukocytes may harbour the GNAQ mutation, depending on the time when the
somatic mutation is acquired. These data suggest the possibility of diagnosis
using blood DNA in some patients with SWS.

DOI: 10.1038/srep22985 
PMCID: PMC4783707
PMID: 26957145  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. J Food Prot. 2016 Mar;79(3):448-53. doi: 10.4315/0362-028X.JFP-15-437.

Population Dynamics of Aspergillus Section Nigri Species on Vineyard Samples of
Grapes and Raisins.

Palumbo JD(1), O'Keeffe TL(2), Ho YS(2), Fidelibus MW(3).

Author information: 
(1)Foodborne Toxin Detection and Prevention Research Unit, U.S. Department of
Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, 800 Buchanan Street, Albany,
California 94710, USA. jeffrey.palumbo@ars.usda.gov. (2)Foodborne Toxin Detection
and Prevention Research Unit, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Agricultural
Research Service, 800 Buchanan Street, Albany, California 94710, USA.
(3)University of California, Kearney Agricultural Research & Extension Center,
9240 South Riverbend Avenue, Parlier, California 93648, USA.

Several species of Aspergillus section Nigri, including potential mycotoxin
producers, are common residents of grape vineyards, but the relative population
size of individual species throughout the growing season is difficult to
determine using traditional isolation and identification methods. Using a
quantitative droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) method in combination with dilution
plating, total Aspergillus section Nigri populations and relative proportions of 
A. niger, A. welwitschiae, A. carbonarius, and A. tubingensis were measured from 
vineyard samples without the need for identifying individual fungal isolates.
Grapes were sampled from two raisin vineyards (vineyards A and B) at berry set,
veraison, harvest, and raisin stages in two consecutive years. Plate counts
showed that the total population of Aspergillus section Nigri present on the
fruit increased from berry set to raisin and became a larger component of the
total recovered fungal population in both vineyards in both years. Results from
ddPCR analysis showed that the relative proportion of A. carbonarius among the
four species assayed increased later in the season (harvest and raisin) in
comparison to earlier in the season (berry set and veraison). Total fungal and
Aspergillus section Nigri plate counts were not significantly different between
vineyards in either year. However, vineyard A generally showed higher proportions
of A. carbonarius in harvest and raisin samples than vineyard B. This coincided
with higher incidence and levels of ochratoxin A in vineyard A harvest and raisin
fruit than in vineyard B fruit. This work demonstrates that this ddPCR method is 
a useful tool for culture-independent monitoring of populations of mycotoxigenic 
Aspergillus species during grape and raisin production.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028X.JFP-15-437 
PMID: 26939655  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. PLoS Pathog. 2016 Mar 3;12(3):e1005472. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1005472.
eCollection 2016.

Integrated and Total HIV-1 DNA Predict Ex Vivo Viral Outgrowth.

Kiselinova M(1,)(2), De Spiegelaere W(1), Buzon MJ(2,)(3), Malatinkova E(1),
Lichterfeld M(2,)(3,)(4), Vandekerckhove L(1).

Author information: 
(1)HIV Translational Research Unit (HTRU), Department of Internal Medicine, Ghent
University and Ghent University Hospital, Ghent, Belgium. (2)Ragon Institute of
MGH, MIT and Harvard, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America.
(3)Infectious Disease Division, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts, United States of America. (4)Infectious Disease Division, Brigham 
and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America.

Erratum in
    PLoS Pathog. 2016 Mar;12(3):e1005532.

The persistence of a reservoir of latently infected CD4 T cells remains one of
the major obstacles to cure HIV. Numerous strategies are being explored to
eliminate this reservoir. To translate these efforts into clinical trials, there 
is a strong need for validated biomarkers that can monitor the reservoir over
time in vivo. A comprehensive study was designed to evaluate and compare
potential HIV-1 reservoir biomarkers. A cohort of 25 patients, treated with
suppressive antiretroviral therapy was sampled at three time points, with median 
of 2.5 years (IQR: 2.4-2.6) between time point 1 and 2; and median of 31 days
(IQR: 28-36) between time point 2 and 3. Patients were median of 6 years (IQR:
3-12) on ART, and plasma viral load (<50 copies/ml) was suppressed for median of 
4 years (IQR: 2-8). Total HIV-1 DNA, unspliced (us) and multiply spliced HIV-1
RNA, and 2LTR circles were quantified by digital PCR in peripheral blood, at 3
time points. At the second time point, a viral outgrowth assay (VOA) was
performed, and integrated HIV-1 DNA and relative mRNA expression levels of HIV-1 
restriction factors were quantified. No significant change was found for long-
and short-term dynamics of all HIV-1 markers tested in peripheral blood.
Integrated HIV-1 DNA was associated with total HIV-1 DNA (p<0.001, R² = 0.85), us
HIV-1 RNA (p = 0.029, R² = 0.40), and VOA (p = 0.041, R2 = 0.44).
Replication-competent virus was detected in 80% of patients by the VOA and it
correlated with total HIV-1 DNA (p = 0.039, R² = 0.54). The mean quantification
difference between Alu-PCR and VOA was 2.88 log10, and 2.23 log10 between total
HIV-1 DNA and VOA. The levels of usHIV-1 RNA were inversely correlated with mRNA 
levels of several HIV-1 restriction factors (TRIM5α, SAMHD1, MX2, SLFN11, pSIP1).
Our study reveals important correlations between the viral outgrowth and total
and integrated HIV-1 DNA measures, suggesting that the total pool of HIV-1 DNA
may predict the size of the replication-competent virus in ART suppressed
patients.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1005472 
PMCID: PMC4777389
PMID: 26938995  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Genome Res. 2016 Apr;26(4):530-40. doi: 10.1101/gr.199448.115. Epub 2016 Mar 2.

A time- and cost-effective strategy to sequence mammalian Y Chromosomes: an
application to the de novo assembly of gorilla Y.

Tomaszkiewicz M(1), Rangavittal S(1), Cechova M(1), Campos Sanchez R(2),
Fescemyer HW(1), Harris R(1), Ye D(1), O'Brien PC(3), Chikhi R(4), Ryder OA(5),
Ferguson-Smith MA(3), Medvedev P(6), Makova KD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Pennsylvania State University, University Park,
Pennsylvania 16802, USA; (2)Genetics Program, The Huck Institutes of the Life
Sciences, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802,
USA; (3)Department of Veterinary Medicine, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB3
0ES, United Kingdom; (4)University of Lille 1/CNRS 59655 Villeneuve d'Ascq,
France; Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Pennsylvania State
University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA; The Genome Sciences
Institute of the Huck Institutes of the Life Sciences, Pennsylvania State
University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA; (5)San Diego Zoo Institute 
for Conservation Research, Escondido, California 92027, USA; (6)Department of
Computer Science and Engineering, Pennsylvania State University, University Park,
Pennsylvania 16802, USA; The Genome Sciences Institute of the Huck Institutes of 
the Life Sciences, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania
16802, USA; Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Pennsylvania State 
University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA.

The mammalian Y Chromosome sequence, critical for studying male fertility and
dispersal, is enriched in repeats and palindromes, and thus, is the most
difficult component of the genome to assemble. Previously, expensive and
labor-intensive BAC-based techniques were used to sequence the Y for a handful of
mammalian species. Here, we present a much faster and more affordable strategy
for sequencing and assembling mammalian Y Chromosomes of sufficient quality for
most comparative genomics analyses and for conservation genetics applications.
The strategy combines flow sorting, short- and long-read genome and transcriptome
sequencing, and droplet digital PCR with novel and existing computational
methods. It can be used to reconstruct sex chromosomes in a heterogametic sex of 
any species. We applied our strategy to produce a draft of the gorilla Y
sequence. The resulting assembly allowed us to refine gene content, evaluate copy
number of ampliconic gene families, locate species-specific palindromes, examine 
the repetitive element content, and produce sequence alignments with human and
chimpanzee Y Chromosomes. Our results inform the evolution of the hominine
(human, chimpanzee, and gorilla) Y Chromosomes. Surprisingly, we found the
gorilla Y Chromosome to be similar to the human Y Chromosome, but not to the
chimpanzee Y Chromosome. Moreover, we have utilized the assembled gorilla Y
Chromosome sequence to design genetic markers for studying the male-specific
dispersal of this endangered species.

© 2016 Tomaszkiewicz et al.; Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.

DOI: 10.1101/gr.199448.115 
PMCID: PMC4817776
PMID: 26934921  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Ann Hematol. 2016 Apr;95(5):739-44. doi: 10.1007/s00277-016-2623-0. Epub 2016 Mar
1.

Sensitive and accurate quantification of JAK2 V617F mutation in chronic
myeloproliferative neoplasms by droplet digital PCR.

Waterhouse M(1), Follo M(2,)(3), Pfeifer D(2,)(3,)(4), von Bubnoff N(2), Duyster 
J(2), Bertz H(2), Finke J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology, Oncology and Stem Cell Transplantation, University
Medical Center Freiburg, Hugstetter Str. 55, 79106, Freiburg, Germany.
miguel.waterhouse@uniklinik-freiburg.de. (2)Department of Hematology, Oncology
and Stem Cell Transplantation, University Medical Center Freiburg, Hugstetter
Str. 55, 79106, Freiburg, Germany. (3)Core Facility. Department of Hematology,
Oncology and Stem Cell Transplantation, University Medical Center Freiburg,
Freiburg, Germany. (4)Core Facility Genomics. Department of Hematology, Oncology 
and Stem Cell Transplantation, University Medical Center Freiburg, Freiburg,
Germany.

The JAK2 V617F mutation can be detected with a high frequency in patients with
myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN). MPN treatment efficiency can be assessed by
JAK2 V617F quantification. Real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR) is widely used for
JAK2 V617F quantification. Emerging alternative technologies like digital droplet
PCR (ddPCR) have been described to overcome inherent qPCR limitations. The
purpose of this study was to evaluate the utility of ddPCR for JAK2 V617F
quantification in patient samples with MPN. Sensitivity and specificity were
established by using DNA artificial mixtures. In addition, 101 samples from 59
patients were evaluated for JAK2 V617F mutation. Limit of detection was 0.01 %
for both qPCR and ddPCR. The JAK2 V617F mutation was detected in 43 out of 59
patients by both PCR platforms. However, in 14 % of the samples, JAK2 V617F
mutation was detected only with ddPCR. This 14 % of discrepant samples were from 
patients shortly after allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Percentage of JAK2
V617F mutation measured by qPCR and ddPCR in clinical samples showed a high
degree of correlation (Spearman r: 0.9637 p < 0.001) and an excellent agreement
assessed by Bland-Altman analysis. In conclusion, ddPCR is a suitable, precise,
and sensitive method for quantification of the JAK 2 V617F mutation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00277-016-2623-0 
PMID: 26931113  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. J Clin Virol. 2016 Apr;77:71-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jcv.2016.02.016. Epub 2016 Feb 20.

Efficient identification of inherited chromosomally integrated human herpesvirus 
6 using specimen pooling.

Hill JA(1), HallSedlak R(2), Magaret A(3), Huang ML(2), Zerr DM(4), Jerome KR(3),
Boeckh M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Washington, United States; Vaccine and
Infectious Disease Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, United
States. Electronic address: jahill3@fredhutch.org. (2)Department of Laboratory
Medicine, University of Washington, United States. (3)Vaccine and Infectious
Disease Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, United States;
Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of Washington, United States.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of Washington, United States; Seattle
Children's Research Institute, Seattle, WA, United States. (5)Department of
Medicine, University of Washington, United States; Vaccine and Infectious Disease
Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, United States.

BACKGROUND: Human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) has a unique ability to integrate into
chromosomal telomeres. Vertical transmission via germ cell integration results in
offspring with inherited chromosomally integrated (ci)HHV-6 in all nucleated
cells, affecting ∼1% of the population.
OBJECTIVES: Inherited ciHHV-6 may be a direct or indirect mediator of human
disease, but efficient identification of affected individuals is a fundamental
roadblock to larger studies exploring the clinical importance of this condition.
STUDY DESIGN: A group testing strategy was designed to efficiently identify
individuals with inherited ciHHV-6. DNA was extracted from 2496 cellular samples 
from hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT) donor-recipient pairs. Pools of 12
samples were screened for HHV-6 DNA with quantitative (q)PCR. Individual samples 
from high positive pools were tested with qPCR, and high positive individual
samples were tested for inherited ciHHV-6 using droplet digital (dd)PCR to
determine HHV-6 DNA copies/cellular genome.
RESULTS: Thirty-one pools had high positive HHV-6 DNA detection with >10(3) HHV-6
DNA copies/μg. Each pool had one sample with >10(4) copies/μg HHV-6 DNA.
Inherited ciHHV-6 was confirmed by ddPCR in every high positive sample (>10(3)
HHV-6 DNA copies/μg), yielding a prevalence of 1.5% in HCT recipients and 0.96%
in donors. We performed 580 qPCR tests to screen 2496 samples for inherited
ciHHV-6, a 77% reduction in testing.
CONCLUSIONS: Inherited ciHHV-6 can be efficiently identified by specimen pooling 
coupled with modern molecular techniques. This algorithm can be used to
facilitate cost-effective identification of patients with inherited ciHHV-6,
thereby removing a major hurdle for large-scale study of its clinical impact.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcv.2016.02.016 
PMCID: PMC4792650
PMID: 26921738  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Nat Protoc. 2016 Mar;11(3):598-615. doi: 10.1038/nprot.2016.027. Epub 2016 Feb
25.

Digital PCR to assess gene-editing frequencies (GEF-dPCR) mediated by designer
nucleases.

Mock U(1), Hauber I(2), Fehse B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research Department Cell and Gene Therapy, Department of Stem Cell
Transplantation, University Medical Centre, Hamburg-Eppendorf (UKE), Hamburg,
Germany. (2)Heinrich Pette Institute, Leibniz Institute for Experimental
Virology, Hamburg, Germany.

Genome editing using designer nucleases such as transcription activator-like
effector nucleases (TALENs) or clustered regularly interspersed short palindromic
repeats (CRISPR)-Cas9 nucleases is an emerging technology in basic and applied
research. Whereas the application of editing tools, namely CRISPR-Cas9, has
recently become very straightforward, quantification of resulting gene knockout
rates still remains a bottleneck. This is particularly true if the product of a
targeted gene is not easily detectable. To address this problem, we devised a
novel gene-editing frequency digital PCR (GEF-dPCR) technique. GEF-dPCR exploits 
two differently labeled probes that are placed within one amplicon at the
gene-editing target site to simultaneously detect wild-type and nonhomologous
end-joining (NHEJ)-affected alleles. Taking advantage of the principle of dPCR,
this enables concurrent quantification of edited and wild-type alleles in a given
sample. We propose that our method is optimal for the monitoring of gene-edited
cells in vivo, e.g., in clinical settings. Here we describe preparation, design
of primers and probes, and setup and analysis of GEF-dPCR. The setup of GEF-dPCR 
requires up to 2 weeks (depending on the starting point); once the dPCR has been 
established, the protocol for sample analysis takes <1 d.

DOI: 10.1038/nprot.2016.027 
PMID: 26914317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. BMC Genomics. 2016 Feb 24;17:132. doi: 10.1186/s12864-016-2470-3.

Identification and expression analysis of genes related to calyx persistence in
Korla fragrant pear.

Pei M(1,)(2), Niu J(3,)(4), Li C(5,)(6), Cao F(7,)(8), Quan S(9,)(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Horticulture, College of Agriculture, Shihezi University,
Shihezi, 832003, Xinjiang, China. 1185248506@qq.com. (2)Xinjiang Production and
Construction Corps Key Laboratory of Special Fruits and Vegetables Cultivation
Physiology and Germplasm Resources Utilization, Shihezi, 832003, Xinjiang, China.
1185248506@qq.com. (3)Department of Horticulture, College of Agriculture, Shihezi
University, Shihezi, 832003, Xinjiang, China. njx105@163.com. (4)Xinjiang
Production and Construction Corps Key Laboratory of Special Fruits and Vegetables
Cultivation Physiology and Germplasm Resources Utilization, Shihezi, 832003,
Xinjiang, China. njx105@163.com. (5)Department of Horticulture, College of
Agriculture, Shihezi University, Shihezi, 832003, Xinjiang, China.
1429994796@qq.com. (6)Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps Key Laboratory
of Special Fruits and Vegetables Cultivation Physiology and Germplasm Resources
Utilization, Shihezi, 832003, Xinjiang, China. 1429994796@qq.com. (7)Department
of Horticulture, College of Agriculture, Shihezi University, Shihezi, 832003,
Xinjiang, China. 528296410@qq.com. (8)Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps 
Key Laboratory of Special Fruits and Vegetables Cultivation Physiology and
Germplasm Resources Utilization, Shihezi, 832003, Xinjiang, China.
528296410@qq.com. (9)Department of Horticulture, College of Agriculture, Shihezi 
University, Shihezi, 832003, Xinjiang, China. 731982806@qq.com. (10)Xinjiang
Production and Construction Corps Key Laboratory of Special Fruits and Vegetables
Cultivation Physiology and Germplasm Resources Utilization, Shihezi, 832003,
Xinjiang, China. 731982806@qq.com.

BACKGROUND: The objective of this study was to increase understanding about
genetic mechanisms affecting calyx persistence in Korla fragrant pear (Pyrus
brestschneideri Rehd). Flowers were collected at early bloom, full bloom, and
late bloom. The RNA was extracted from the flowers and then combined according to
calyx type. Transcriptome and digital gene expression (DGE) profiles of flowers, 
ovaries, and sepals with persistent calyx (SC_hua, SC_ep, and SC_zf,
respectively) were compared with those of flowers, ovaries, and sepals with
deciduous calyx (TL_hua, TL_ep, and TL_zf, respectively). Temporal changes in the
expression of selected genes in floral organs with either persistent or deciduous
calyx were compared using real-time quantitative PCR (qRT-PCR).
RESULTS: Comparison of the transcriptome sequences for SC_hua and TL_hua
indicated 26 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) with known relationship to
abscission and 10 DEGs with unknown function. We identified 98 MYB and 21 SPL
genes from the assembled unigenes. From SC_zf vs TL_zf, we identified 21 DEGs
with known relationship to abscission and 18 DEGs with unknown function. From
SC_ep vs TL_ep, 12 DEGs with known relationship to abscission were identified
along with 11 DEGs with unknown function. Ten DEGs were identified by both
transcriptome sequencing and DGE sequencing.
CONCLUSIONS: More than 50 DEGs were observed that were related to calyx
persistence in Korla fragrant pear. Some of the genes were related to cell wall
degradation, plant hormone signal transduction, and stress response. Other DEGs
were identified as zinc finger protein genes and lipid transfer protein genes.
Further analysis showed that calyx persistence in Korla fragment pear was a
metabolic process regulated by many genes related to cell wall degradation and
plant hormones.

DOI: 10.1186/s12864-016-2470-3 
PMCID: PMC4765163
PMID: 26911295  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Front Plant Sci. 2016 Feb 12;6:1208. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2015.01208. eCollection
2015.

Transcriptomic Analysis for Different Sex Types of Ricinus communis L. during
Development from Apical Buds to Inflorescences by Digital Gene Expression
Profiling.

Tan M(1), Xue J(1), Wang L(1), Huang J(2), Fu C(1), Yan X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Biology and Genetic Improvement of Oil Crops, Ministry of
Agriculture, Oil Crops Research Institute of the Chinese Academy of Agricultural 
Sciences Wuhan, China. (2)Castor Oil Research Institute of Jiaxiang Zibo, China.

The castor plant (Ricinus communis L.) is a versatile industrial oilseed crop
with a diversity of sex patterns, its hybrid breeding for improving yield and
high purity is still hampered by genetic instability of female and poor knowledge
of sex expression mechanisms. To obtain some hints involved in sex expression and
provide the basis for further insight into the molecular mechanisms of castor
plant sex determination, we performed DGE analysis to investigate differences
between the transcriptomes of apices and racemes derived from female (JXBM0705P) 
and monoecious (JXBM0705M) lines. A total of 18 DGE libraries were constructed
from the apices and racemes of a wild monoecious line and its isogenic female
derivative at three stages of apex development, in triplicate. Approximately 5.7 
million clean tags per library were generated and mapped to the reference castor 
genome. Transcriptomic analysis showed that identical dynamic changes of gene
expression were indicated in monoecious and female apical bud during its
development from vegetation to reproduction, with more genes expressed at the
raceme formation and infant raceme stages compare to the early leaf bud stage.
More than 3000 of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were detected in Ricinus 
apices at three developmental stages between two different sex types. A number of
DEGs involved in hormone response and biosynthesis, such as auxin response and
transport, transcription factors, signal transduction, histone
demethylation/methylation, programmed cell death, and pollination, putatively
associated with sex expression and reproduction were discovered, and the selected
DEGs showed consistent expression between qRT-PCR validation and the DGE
patterns. Most of those DEGs were suppressed at the early leaf stage in buds of
the mutant, but then activated at the following transition stage (5-7-leaf stage)
of buds in the mutant, and ultimately, the number of up-regulated DEGs was equal 
to that of down-regulation in the small raceme of the mutant. In this study, a
large number of DEGs and some suggestions involved in sex expression and
reproduction were discovered using DGE analysis, which provides large information
and valuable hints for next insights into the molecular mechanism of sex
determination. It is useful for other further studies in Ricinus.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2015.01208 
PMCID: PMC4751274
PMID: 26904031 


490. Environ Sci Technol. 2016 Apr 5;50(7):3399-408. doi: 10.1021/acs.est.5b05747.
Epub 2016 Mar 8.

Absolute Quantification of Enterococcal 23S rRNA Gene Using Digital PCR.

Wang D(1), Yamahara KM(1), Cao Y(2), Boehm AB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Environmental and Water Studies, Department of Civil and Environmental
Engineering, Stanford University , Stanford, California 94305, United States.
(2)Southern California Coastal Water Research Project Authority , Costa Mesa,
California 92626, United States.

We evaluated the ability of chip-based digital PCR (dPCR) to quantify
enterococci, the fecal indicator recommended by the United States Environmental
Protection Agency (USEPA) for water-quality monitoring. dPCR uses Poisson
statistics to estimate the number of DNA fragments in a sample with a specific
sequence. Underestimation may occur when a gene is redundantly encoded in the
genome and multiple copies of that gene are on one DNA fragment. When genomic DNA
(gDNA) was extracted using two commercial DNA extraction kits, we confirmed that 
dPCR could discern individual copies of the redundant 23s rRNA gene in the
enterococcal genome. dPCR quantification was accurate when compared to the
nominal concentration inferred from fluorometer measurements (linear regression
slope = 0.98, intercept = 0.03, R(2) = 0.99, and p value <0.0001). dPCR
quantification was also consistent with quantitative PCR (qPCR) measurements as
well as cell counts for BioBall reference standard and 24 environmental water
samples. qPCR and dPCR quantification of enterococci in the 24 environmental
samples were significantly correlated (linear regression slope =1.08, R(2) of
0.96, and p value <0.0001); the group mean of the qPCR measurements was 0.19 log 
units higher than that of the dPCR measurements. At environmentally relevant
concentrations, dPCR quantification was more precise (i.e., had narrower 95%
confidence intervals than qPCR quantification). We observed that humic acid
caused a similar level of inhibition in both dPCR and qPCR, but calcium inhibited
dPCR to a lesser degree than qPCR. Inhibition of dPCR was partially relieved when
the number of thermal cycles was increased. Based on these results, we conclude
that dPCR is a viable option for enumerating enterococci in ambient water.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.5b05747 
PMID: 26903207 


491. Sci Rep. 2016 Feb 23;6:21652. doi: 10.1038/srep21652.

Transcriptional identification and characterization of differentially expressed
genes associated with embryogenesis in radish (Raphanus sativus L.).

Zhai L(1,)(2), Xu L(1), Wang Y(1), Zhu X(3), Feng H(1), Li C(1), Luo X(1),
Everlyne MM(1), Liu L(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Key Laboratory of Crop Genetics and Germplasm Enhancement, College of
Horticulture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095, P.R. China.
(2)College of Plant Science, Jilin University, Changchun 130062, P.R. China.
(3)Department of Plant Sciences, North Dakota State University, Fargo, ND 58108, 
USA.

Embryogenesis is an important component in the life cycle of most plant species. 
Due to the difficulty in embryo isolation, the global gene expression involved in
plant embryogenesis, especially the early events following fertilization are
largely unknown in radish. In this study, three cDNA libraries from ovules of
radish before and after fertilization were sequenced using the Digital Gene
Expression (DGE) tag profiling strategy. A total of 5,777 differentially
expressed transcripts were detected based on pairwise comparison in the three
libraries (0_DAP, 7_DAP and 15_DAP). Results from Gene Ontology (GO) and pathway 
enrichment analysis revealed that these differentially expressed genes (DEGs)
were implicated in numerous life processes including embryo development and
phytohormones biosynthesis. Notably, some genes encoding auxin response factor
(ARF ), Leafy cotyledon1 (LEC1) and somatic embryogenesis receptor-like kinase
(SERK ) known to be involved in radish embryogenesis were differentially
expressed. The expression patterns of 30 genes including LEC1-2, AGL9, LRR, PKL
and ARF8-1 were validated by qRT-PCR. Furthermore, the cooperation between miRNA 
and mRNA may play a pivotal role in the radish embryogenesis process. This is the
first report on identification of DEGs profiles related to radish embryogenesis
and seed development. These results could facilitate further dissection of the
molecular mechanisms underlying embryogenesis and seed development in radish.

DOI: 10.1038/srep21652 
PMCID: PMC4763228
PMID: 26902837  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Osteoporos Int. 2016 Jul;27(7):2373-8. doi: 10.1007/s00198-016-3536-4. Epub 2016 
Feb 22.

Reduced Sirtuin1 expression at the femoral neck in women who sustained an
osteoporotic hip fracture.

El-Haj M(1), Gurt I(2), Cohen-Kfir E(2), Dixit V(2), Artsi H(2,)(3), Kandel L(1),
Yakubovsky O(2,)(3), Safran O(1), Dresner-Pollak R(4).

Author information: 
(1)Orthopedic Surgery, Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center, Jerusalem,
Israel. (2)Endocrinology and Metabolism Service, Department of Medicine,
Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center, P.O.B. 12000, Jerusalem, 91120,
Israel. (3)Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical School, Jerusalem, Israel.
(4)Endocrinology and Metabolism Service, Department of Medicine, Hadassah-Hebrew 
University Medical Center, P.O.B. 12000, Jerusalem, 91120, Israel.
rivkap@hadassah.org.il.

To investigate the role of Sirtuin1 in osteoporosis, Sirtuin1 was determined at
the femoral neck in female patients undergoing hip operation for fractured hip or
osteoarthritis. Reduced Sirtuin1 was found in osteoporotic patients.
Pharmacologic activation of Sirtuin1 reduced sclerostin, an inhibitor of bone
formation. Activation of Sirtuin1 may be a new direction to generate therapies
for osteoporosis.INTRODUCTION: The aim of the study are to investigate the role
of Sirtuin1 (Sirt1), an anti-aging factor and a player in age-associated
diseases, in osteoporotic hip fractures, and test the hypothesis that Sirt1 is a 
negative regulator of sclerostin, a bone formation inhibitor, in human femoral
bone marrow mesenchymal cells (BM-MSCs).
METHODS: Sirt1 and sclerostin were determined by western blot in bone samples
obtained intra-operatively from the inferior medial cortex of the femoral neck
(calcar region) in female patients undergoing partial hip replacement for
fractured neck of femur (N = 10) or hip replacement for osteoarthritis (N = 8)
(mean ± SD age 81 ± 8.1 vs. 68 ± 9.3 years; BMI 26.2 ± 3.6 vs. 25.9 ± 7.1 kg/m(2)
in osteoporotic and osteoarthritis patients). Calcar thickness and femoral bone
mineral density (BMD) were determined preoperatively by X-ray using a digital
TraumaCad(™) software and DEXA. Femoral BM-MSCs were collected intra-operatively 
and treated with SRT3025, a Sirt1 activator. Sclerostin and dentin matrix acidic 
phosphoprotein (DMP1) were determined by western blot and messenger RNA (mRNA)
expression of Lef1 and DMP1 was evaluated by quantitative real-time PCR.
RESULTS: Osteoporotic (OP) patients had reduced cortical thickness, femoral neck,
and total hip BMD compared to osteoarthritis (OA) patients. Calcar Sirt1
expression was significantly reduced, while sclerostin was markedly increased in 
OP compared to OA patients. Sirt1 and sclersotin expressions were inversely
correlated (r = -0.49, P = 0.047). SRT3025 administration down-regulated
sclerostin and up-regulated DMP1 protein level and increased LEF1 and DMP1 mRNA
expressions in OP patient-derived BM-MSCs.
CONCLUSIONS: Reduced femoral neck Sirt1 may play a role in osteoporotic hip
fractures in part via influencing local sclerostin expression. The therapeutic
potential of Sirt1 activation in osteoporosis warrants further investigation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-016-3536-4 
PMID: 26902093 


493. J Pharm Biomed Anal. 2016 May 10;123:128-31. doi: 10.1016/j.jpba.2016.01.050.
Epub 2016 Jan 28.

A direct droplet digital PCR method for quantification of residual DNA in protein
drugs produced in yeast cells.

Hussain M(1), Fantuzzo R(2), Mercorelli S(2), Cullen C(2).

Author information: 
(1)BioProcess Development, Biologics and Vaccines Research, Merck Research
Laboratories, Kenilworth, NJ, USA. Electronic address:
musaddeq.hussain@merck.com. (2)BioProcess Development, Biologics and Vaccines
Research, Merck Research Laboratories, Kenilworth, NJ, USA.

Yeast cells, in particular Pichia pastoris, are the host cell of choice for
manufacturing several protein therapeutic agents in the biopharmaceutical
industry. Host cell DNA is an impurity of such manufacturing process and the
residual DNA after the purification process of the drug must be monitored to
ensure drug purity and safety. Currently, real-time PCR (qPCR) based methods are 
widely employed for quantification of host residual DNA. At the same time the
digital PCR technology is coming into prominence with promise of higher
sensitivity. Here we report a method where the protein drug is directly added to 
the droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) reaction including yeast-specific primers and
fluorescent-tagged probe and nanoliter-sized droplets are generated. The droplets
are then subjected to PCR followed by analysis for fluorescence. This Pichia
residual DNA direct ddPCR method for yeast can be used to test higher amount of
drug compared to the corresponding qPCR method thereby increasing sensitivity,
retaining high precision and accuracy and has a wide linear range of
determination. The method has been successfully tested with three batches of a
recombinant human IgG1-Fc-based drug (RP-1) and with commercially available human
insulin, both manufactured in yeast cells. This method simplifies the residual
DNA quantification protocol by eliminating DNA extraction or protease digestion
and eliminates use of DNA standards in day-to-day running of the method.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpba.2016.01.050 
PMID: 26896631  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. J Clin Pathol. 2016 May;69(5):454-7. doi: 10.1136/jclinpath-2015-203429. Epub
2016 Feb 18.

EGFR mutation detection on routine cytological smears of non-small cell lung
cancer by digital PCR: a validation study.

Malapelle U(1), de Luca C(1), Vigliar E(1), Ambrosio F(2), Rocco D(3), Pisapia
P(1), Bellevicine C(1), Troncone G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Naples Federico II, Naples, Italy. 
(2)Azienda Ospedaliera di Rilievo Nazionale, Antonio Cardarelli, Naples, Italy.
(3)Azienda Ospedaliera di Rilievo Nazionale, Ospedale dei Colli, Naples, Italy.

Highly sensitive genotyping techniques are useful to detect epidermal growth
factor receptor (EGFR) mutations on lung cancer cytological samples, when these
specimens feature only few neoplastic cells. This study aimed to validate digital
PCR (dPCR) methodology on cytological material. In plasmid model system, dPCR
allowed for the detection of a minimal percentage (1%) of EGFR mutant alleles.
Cytological samples (n = 30), with neoplastic cell percentage ranging from 10% to
80% and yielding a quantity of extracted DNA ranging from 1.75 to 60 ng/µL were
selected. Results previously generated by fragment length and TaqMan assays (n = 
8 exon 19 deletions, n = 2 L858R mutations and n = 20 wild-type DNA) were
compared with those obtained by dPCR. Data were highly concordant (96.6%).
However, dPCR detected an additional L858R mutation that had been missed by
TaqMan assay on a paucicellular smear. This mutation was confirmed by cloning PCR
products and sequencing. Thus, dPCR can reliably be used to increase EGFR
mutation detection rate on scarcely cellular lung cancer smears.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/jclinpath-2015-203429 
PMID: 26893402  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. BMC Genet. 2016 Feb 18;17:44. doi: 10.1186/s12863-016-0353-x.

Study on LOC426217 as a candidate gene for beak deformity in chicken.

Bai H(1), Sun Y(2), Zhu J(3), Liu N(4), Li D(5), Xue F(6), Li Y(7), Chen J(8).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Genetics Resources and Utilization of Livestock, Institute
of Animal Science, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing, 100193,
China. bhowen1027@163.com. (2)Key Laboratory of Genetics Resources and
Utilization of Livestock, Institute of Animal Science, Chinese Academy of
Agricultural Sciences, Beijing, 100193, China. yanyansun2014@163.com. (3)Key
Laboratory of Genetics Resources and Utilization of Livestock, Institute of
Animal Science, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing, 100193, China.
jingjing19870220@163.com. (4)Key Laboratory of Genetics Resources and Utilization
of Livestock, Institute of Animal Science, Chinese Academy of Agricultural
Sciences, Beijing, 100193, China. liunian.14@163.com. (5)Key Laboratory of
Genetics Resources and Utilization of Livestock, Institute of Animal Science,
Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing, 100193, China.
lidongli20002004@163.com. (6)Key Laboratory of Genetics Resources and Utilization
of Livestock, Institute of Animal Science, Chinese Academy of Agricultural
Sciences, Beijing, 100193, China. xueguang123@126.com. (7)Key Laboratory of
Genetics Resources and Utilization of Livestock, Institute of Animal Science,
Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing, 100193, China.
mailyunlei@163.com. (8)Key Laboratory of Genetics Resources and Utilization of
Livestock, Institute of Animal Science, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences,
Beijing, 100193, China. chen.jilan@163.com.

BACKGROUND: The beak deformity (crossed beaks) was found in some indigenous
chickens of China, such as Beijing-You (BJY), Qingyuan Partridge, and Huxu
Chickens. Birds with deformed beaks have reduced feed intake and drinking,
impeded growth rate, and poor production performance. Beak deformity reduces the 
economy of poultry industry and affects animal welfare as well. The genetic basis
of this malformation remains incompletely understood. LOC426217, also named claw 
keratin-like, was the most up-regulated gene in the deformed beaks from a
previous digital gene expression (DGE) analysis and was selected as an important 
candidate gene for further analysis.
RESULTS: In the present study, quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) was firstly
performed to determine the expression pattern of LOC426217 gene in deformed and
normal beaks to verify the DGE results. Tissue-specific expression profile of
this gene in 14 tissues was also determined using qRT-PCR. The LOC426217 was
amplified from the genomic DNA of 171 deformed and 164 normal beaks, and
sequenced to detect the single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). The results
showed that LOC426217 was significantly high-expressed in the deformed beaks,
which was in good agreement with the DGE results. This gene was specifically
high-expressed in beaks than other tissues. Eight SNPs were detected in
LOC426217: -62G > T, 24 T > C, 36G > C, 192A > T, 204C > T, 222 T > C, 285G > T, 
and 363 T > C. Genotype frequency of G-62 T, T24C, G36C, T222C, and T363C loci
was significant different between deformed and normal beaks. Haplotype analysis
revealed one block with SNPs T24C and G36C, and one block with SNPs A192T, C204T,
T222C, and G285T in normal birds, while the block with SNPs G36C and A192T in
deformed ones.
CONCLUSIONS: It was concluded from these results that the over-expression of
LOC426217 in the beak maybe related to the malformation. The polymorphisms of
LOC426217 gene were associated with the beak deformity trait where the SNPs of
G-62 T, T24C, G36C, T222C, and T363C loci maybe used as markers. The specific
haplotype block in deformed birds may be a potential linkage marker for this
trait.

DOI: 10.1186/s12863-016-0353-x 
PMCID: PMC4758156
PMID: 26891797  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. J Clin Microbiol. 2016 May;54(5):1223-7. doi: 10.1128/JCM.03275-15. Epub 2016 Feb
17.

Detection of Human Herpesvirus 6B (HHV-6B) Reactivation in Hematopoietic Cell
Transplant Recipients with Inherited Chromosomally Integrated HHV-6A by Droplet
Digital PCR.

Sedlak RH(1), Hill JA(2), Nguyen T(1), Cho M(1), Levin G(1), Cook L(1), Huang
ML(1), Flamand L(3), Zerr DM(4), Boeckh M(2), Jerome KR(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington, USA. (2)Vaccine and Infectious Disease Division, Fred Hutchinson
Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington, USA. (3)Division of Infectious and
Immune Diseases, CHU de Quebec Research Center, Quebec City, Canada Department of
Microbiology-Infectious Diseases and Immunology, Faculty of Medicine, Université 
Laval, Quebec City, Canada. (4)Seattle Children's Hospital, Seattle, Washington, 
USA. (5)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington, USA Vaccine and Infectious Disease Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer
Research Center, Seattle, Washington, USA kjerome@fredhutch.org.

The presence of inherited chromosomally integrated human herpesvirus 6 (ciHHV-6) 
in hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT) donors or recipients confounds molecular
testing for HHV-6 reactivation, which occurs in 30 to 50% of transplants. Here we
describe a multiplex droplet digital PCR clinical diagnostic assay that
concurrently distinguishes between HHV-6 species (A or B) and identifies
inherited ciHHV-6. By applying this assay to recipient post-HCT plasma and serum 
samples, we demonstrated reactivation of HHV-6B in 25% (4/16 recipients) of HCT
recipients with donor- or recipient-derived inherited ciHHV-6A, underscoring the 
need for diagnostic testing for HHV-6 infection even in the presence of ciHHV-6.

Copyright © 2016, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.03275-15 
PMCID: PMC4844705
PMID: 26888901 


497. Zhonghua Kou Qiang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2015 Dec;50(12):725-30.

[Bioactive glass 45S5-silk fibroin membrane supports proliferation and
differentiation of human dental pulp stem cells].

[Article in Chinese]

Lyu X(1), Li Z(1), Wang H(1), Yang X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Digital Dental Center, Key Laboratory of Oral Medicine,
Guangzhou Institute of Oral Disease, Stomatology Hospital of Guangzhou Medical
University, Guangzhou 510140, China. (2)Department of Digital Dental Center, Key 
Laboratory of Oral Medicine, Guangzhou Institute of Oral Disease, Stomatology
Hospital of Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou 510140, China; Email:
xyang.gmu@gmail.com.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of bioactivity glass 45S5- silk
fibroin(BG45S5- SF) membrane on growth, proliferation and differentiation of
human dental pulp stem cells(hDPSC), and to provide new ideas and method for the 
regeneration of pulp-dentine complex.
METHODS: hDPSC seed on pure silk fibroin membrane (protein membrane group) and
BG45S5-SF membrane with different concentrations(1 000, 5 000 mg/L, composite
membrane group A and B, respectively) were prepared, and the materials were
incubated in cell culture fluid for 24 h. No material membrane orifice plate was 
used as blank control group. Contact angle meter was used to measure surface
contact angle of protein membrane and composite membrane group(each group had
three repeated holes). Cell proliferation was assessed by cell counting kit- 8 on
the 4, 7, 14, and 21 days. The state of adhesion and growth of hDPSC on the
materials surface was evaluated by scanning electron microscopy and cytoskeleton 
staining; and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity was measured to evaluate the
cell differentiation potential. The expression of odontoblastic
differentiation-related genes was measured by real-time PCR.
RESULTS: Surface contact angle of the protein membrane group and composite
membrane group A and group B were 89.51° ± 0.12°, 70.32° ± 0.07° and 71.31° ±
0.09° respectively. hDPSC adhered well on each materials surface on the 7, 14, 21
days, ALP activity and differentiation genes of composite membrane group A and B 
rised more significantly than the blank control group and protein membrane group 
did (P<0.05). Dentin matrix protein1(DMP- 1), dentin sialoprotein(DSP), ALP,
osteocalcin(OC) mRNA expression reached peak on the 14 days in group A, and in
group B on the 21 days. Bone sialoprotein(BSP) mRNA expression in both group A
and B reached peak on the 21 days.
CONCLUSIONS: BG45S5- SF membrane is able to support the proliferation and showed 
the potential of odontoblastic differentiation for hDPSC. This finding suggests
that BG45S5-SF membrane was a kind of tissue engineering film material with the
regeneration potential for pulp-dentine complex.


PMID: 26887396  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Leuk Lymphoma. 2016 Sep;57(9):2171-9. doi: 10.3109/10428194.2016.1139703. Epub
2016 Feb 17.

Digital PCR for quantification of recurrent and potentially actionable somatic
mutations in circulating free DNA from patients with diffuse large B-cell
lymphoma.

Camus V(1,)(2), Sarafan-Vasseur N(3), Bohers E(2), Dubois S(2), Mareschal S(2),
Bertrand P(2), Viailly PJ(2), Ruminy P(2), Maingonnat C(2), Lemasle E(1,)(2),
Stamatoullas A(1,)(2), Picquenot JM(4), Cornic M(4), Beaussire L(3), Bastard
C(2,)(5), Frebourg T(3), Tilly H(1,)(2), Jardin F(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Hematology , Centre Henri Becquerel , Rouen , France ; (2)b
INSERM U918, Centre Henri Becquerel, University of Rouen , Rouen , France ; (3)c 
INSERM U1079, University of Rouen , Rouen , France ; (4)d Department of Pathology
, Centre Henri Becquerel , Rouen , France ; (5)e Department of Genetic Oncology ,
Centre Henri Becquerel , Rouen , France.

Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is an aggressive and heterogeneous
malignancy harboring frequent targetable activating somatic mutations. Emerging
evidence suggests that circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) can be used to detect
somatic variants in DLBCL using Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS) experiments. In 
this proof-of-concept study, we chose to develop simple and valuable digital PCR 
(dPCR) assays for the detection of recurrent exportin-1 (XPO1) E571K, EZH2 Y641N,
and MYD88 L265P mutations in DLBCL patients, thereby identifying patients most
likely to potentially benefit from targeted therapies. We demonstrated that our
dPCR assays were sufficiently sensitive to detect rare XPO1, EZH2, and MYD88
mutations in plasma cfDNA, with a sensitivity of 0.05%. cfDNA somatic mutation
detection by dPCR seems to be a promising technique in the management of DLBCL,
in addition to NGS experiments.

DOI: 10.3109/10428194.2016.1139703 
PMID: 26883583 


499. Breast Cancer Res. 2016 Feb 16;18(1):21. doi: 10.1186/s13058-016-0682-8.

Computational pathology of pre-treatment biopsies identifies lymphocyte density
as a predictor of response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy in breast cancer.

Ali HR(1,)(2), Dariush A(3), Provenzano E(4,)(5,)(6), Bardwell H(7), Abraham
JE(8,)(9), Iddawela M(10,)(11), Vallier AL(12,)(13), Hiller L(14), Dunn JA(15),
Bowden SJ(16), Hickish T(17), McAdam K(18), Houston S(19), Irwin MJ(20), Pharoah 
PD(21,)(22), Brenton JD(23,)(24,)(25), Walton NA(26), Earl HM(27,)(28), Caldas
C(29,)(30,)(31).

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute, University of Cambridge, Li Ka Shing
Centre, Cambridge, UK. raza.ali@cruk.cam.ac.uk. (2)Department of Pathology,
University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK. raza.ali@cruk.cam.ac.uk. (3)Institute of 
Astronomy, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK. adariush@ast.cam.ac.uk.
(4)Department of Oncology, University of Cambridge, Addenbrooke's Hospital,
Cambridge, UK. elena.provenzano@addenbrookes.nhs.uk. (5)Department of
Histopathology, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge University Hospitals NHS
Foundation Trust, Cambridge, UK. elena.provenzano@addenbrookes.nhs.uk.
(6)Cambridge Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre and NIHR Cambridge Biomedical
Research Centre, Cambridge, UK. elena.provenzano@addenbrookes.nhs.uk. (7)Cancer
Research UK Cambridge Institute, University of Cambridge, Li Ka Shing Centre,
Cambridge, UK. helen.bardwell@cruk.cam.ac.uk. (8)Department of Oncology,
University of Cambridge, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, UK.
ja344@medschl.cam.ac.uk. (9)Cambridge Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre and
NIHR Cambridge Biomedical Research Centre, Cambridge, UK.
ja344@medschl.cam.ac.uk. (10)Department of Oncology, University of Cambridge,
Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, UK. mahesh.iddawela@monash.edu. (11)Present
address: Department of Anatomy and Developmental Biology, Monash University,
Clayton, Victoria, Australia. mahesh.iddawela@monash.edu. (12)Department of
Oncology, University of Cambridge, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, UK.
Anne-Laure.Vallier@addenbrookes.nhs.uk. (13)Cambridge Experimental Cancer
Medicine Centre and NIHR Cambridge Biomedical Research Centre, Cambridge, UK.
Anne-Laure.Vallier@addenbrookes.nhs.uk. (14)Warwick Clinical Trials Unit,
University of Warwick, Coventry, UK. l.hiller@warwick.ac.uk. (15)Warwick Clinical
Trials Unit, University of Warwick, Coventry, UK. J.A.Dunn@warwick.ac.uk.
(16)Cancer Research UK Clinical Trials Unit, Institute for Cancer Studies, The
University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham, UK. s.j.bowden@bham.ac.uk.
(17)Royal Bournemouth Hospital and Bournemouth University, Castle Lane East,
Bournemouth, UK. tamas.hickish@rbch.nhs.uk. (18)Peterborough and Stamford
Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and Cambridge University Hospital NHS Foundation
Trust, Peterborough, UK. karen.mcadam@pbh-tr.nhs.uk. (19)Royal Surrey County
Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Egerton Road, Guildford, UK. shouston@nhs.net.
(20)Institute of Astronomy, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
mike@ast.cam.ac.uk. (21)Department of Oncology, University of Cambridge,
Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, UK. pp10001@medschl.cam.ac.uk. (22)Cambridge
Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre and NIHR Cambridge Biomedical Research
Centre, Cambridge, UK. pp10001@medschl.cam.ac.uk. (23)Cancer Research UK
Cambridge Institute, University of Cambridge, Li Ka Shing Centre, Cambridge, UK. 
james.brenton@cruk.cam.ac.uk. (24)Department of Oncology, University of
Cambridge, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, UK. james.brenton@cruk.cam.ac.uk.
(25)Cambridge Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre and NIHR Cambridge Biomedical
Research Centre, Cambridge, UK. james.brenton@cruk.cam.ac.uk. (26)Institute of
Astronomy, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK. naw@ast.cam.ac.uk.
(27)Department of Oncology, University of Cambridge, Addenbrooke's Hospital,
Cambridge, UK. hme22@cam.ac.uk. (28)Cambridge Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre
and NIHR Cambridge Biomedical Research Centre, Cambridge, UK. hme22@cam.ac.uk.
(29)Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute, University of Cambridge, Li Ka Shing 
Centre, Cambridge, UK. carlos.caldas@cruk.cam.ac.uk. (30)Department of Oncology, 
University of Cambridge, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, UK.
carlos.caldas@cruk.cam.ac.uk. (31)Cambridge Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre
and NIHR Cambridge Biomedical Research Centre, Cambridge, UK.
carlos.caldas@cruk.cam.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: There is a need to improve prediction of response to chemotherapy in 
breast cancer in order to improve clinical management and this may be achieved by
harnessing computational metrics of tissue pathology. We investigated the
association between quantitative image metrics derived from computational
analysis of digital pathology slides and response to chemotherapy in women with
breast cancer who received neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
METHODS: We digitised tissue sections of both diagnostic and surgical samples of 
breast tumours from 768 patients enrolled in the Neo-tAnGo randomized controlled 
trial. We subjected digital images to systematic analysis optimised for detection
of single cells. Machine-learning methods were used to classify cells as cancer, 
stromal or lymphocyte and we computed estimates of absolute numbers, relative
fractions and cell densities using these data. Pathological complete response
(pCR), a histological indicator of chemotherapy response, was the primary
endpoint. Fifteen image metrics were tested for their association with pCR using 
univariate and multivariate logistic regression.
RESULTS: Median lymphocyte density proved most strongly associated with pCR on
univariate analysis (OR 4.46, 95 % CI 2.34-8.50, p < 0.0001; observations = 614) 
and on multivariate analysis (OR 2.42, 95 % CI 1.08-5.40, p = 0.03; observations 
= 406) after adjustment for clinical factors. Further exploratory analyses
revealed that in approximately one quarter of cases there was an increase in
lymphocyte density in the tumour removed at surgery compared to diagnostic
biopsies. A reduction in lymphocyte density at surgery was strongly associated
with pCR (OR 0.28, 95 % CI 0.17-0.47, p < 0.0001; observations = 553).
CONCLUSIONS: A data-driven analysis of computational pathology reveals lymphocyte
density as an independent predictor of pCR. Paradoxically an increase in
lymphocyte density, following exposure to chemotherapy, is associated with a lack
of pCR. Computational pathology can provide objective, quantitative and
reproducible tissue metrics and represents a viable means of outcome prediction
in breast cancer.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00070278 ; 03/10/2003.

DOI: 10.1186/s13058-016-0682-8 
PMCID: PMC4755003
PMID: 26882907  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2016 Apr;214(4):521.e1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ajog.2016.01.191.
Epub 2016 Feb 12.

Identifying late-onset fetal growth restriction by measuring circulating
placental RNA in the maternal blood at 28 weeks' gestation.

Whitehead CL(1), McNamara H(2), Walker SP(3), Alexiadis M(4), Fuller PJ(4),
Vickers DK(3), Hannan NJ(3), Hastie R(3), Tuohey L(3), Kaitu'u-Lino TJ(3), Tong
S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Obstetrics Group, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology,
University of Melbourne, Mercy Hospital for Women, Melbourne, Australia.
Electronic address: clarew@unimelb.edu.au. (2)Department of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, University of Melbourne, Royal Women's Hospital, Parkville,
Australia. (3)Translational Obstetrics Group, Department of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, University of Melbourne, Mercy Hospital for Women, Melbourne,
Australia. (4)Hudson Institute of Medical Research, Monash Health, Clayton,
Australia.

BACKGROUND: Late-onset fetal growth restriction (FGR) is often undetected prior
to birth, which puts the fetus at increased risk of adverse perinatal outcomes
including stillbirth.
OBJECTIVE: Measuring RNA circulating in the maternal blood may provide a
noninvasive insight into placental function. We examined whether measuring RNA in
the maternal blood at 26-30 weeks' gestation can identify pregnancies at risk of 
late-onset FGR. We focused on RNA highly expressed in placenta, which we termed
"placental-specific genes."
STUDY DESIGN: This was a case-control study nested within a prospective cohort of
600 women recruited at 26-30 weeks' gestation. The circulating placental
transcriptome in maternal blood was compared between women with late-onset FGR
(<5th centile at >36+6 weeks) and gestation-matched well-grown controls (20-95th 
centile) using microarray (n = 12). TaqMan low-density arrays, reverse
transcription-polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and digital PCR were used to
validate the microarray findings (FGR n = 40, controls n = 80).
RESULTS: Forty women developed late-onset FGR (birthweight 2574 ± 338 g, 2nd
centile) and were matched to 80 well-grown controls (birthweight 3415 ± 339 g,
53rd centile, P < .05). Operative delivery and neonatal admission were higher in 
the FGR cohort (45% vs 23%, P < .05). Messenger RNA coding 137 placental-specific
genes was detected in the maternal blood and 37 were differentially expressed in 
late-onset FGR. Seven were significantly dysregulated with PCR validation (P <
.05). Activating transcription factor-3 messenger RNA transcripts were the most
promising single biomarker at 26-30 weeks: they were increased in fetuses
destined to be born FGR at term (2.1-fold vs well grown at term, P < .001) and
correlated with the severity of FGR. Combining biomarkers improved prediction of 
severe late-onset FGR (area under the curve, 0.88; 95% CI 0.80-0.97). A
multimarker gene expression score had a sensitivity of 79%, a specificity of 88%,
and a positive likelihood ratio of 6.2 for subsequent delivery of a baby <3rd
centile at term.
CONCLUSION: A unique placental transcriptome is detectable in maternal blood at
26-30 weeks' gestation in pregnancies destined to develop late-onset FGR.
Circulating placental RNA may therefore be a promising noninvasive test to
identify pregnancies at risk of developing FGR at term.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2016.01.191 
PMID: 26880734  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Zhonghua Bing Li Xue Za Zhi. 2016 Feb;45(2):117-9. doi:
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0529-5807.2016.02.012.

[Comparison of droplet digital PCR and IHC combined FISH in detection of breast
carcinoma HER2 amplification].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu Y, Zhu Y, Peng Y, Zheng X, Lu D, Mao M, Zheng G.


PMID: 26879436  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2016 Jun;51(6):872-3. doi: 10.1038/bmt.2016.14. Epub 2016
Feb 15.

Digital-PCR assay for screening and quantitative monitoring of calreticulin
(CALR) type-2 positive patients with myelofibrosis following allogeneic stem cell
transplantation.

Badbaran A(1), Fehse B(1), Christopeit M(1), Aranyossy T(1), Ayuk FA(1), Wolschke
C(1), Kröger N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Stem Cell Transplantation, University Medical Center
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg-Eppendorf, Germany.

DOI: 10.1038/bmt.2016.14 
PMID: 26878663 


503. Gastric Cancer. 2017 Jan;20(1):126-135. doi: 10.1007/s10120-016-0599-z. Epub 2016
Feb 13.

Monitoring the HER2 copy number status in circulating tumor DNA by droplet
digital PCR in patients with gastric cancer.

Shoda K(1,)(2), Ichikawa D(3), Fujita Y(1,)(2), Masuda K(2), Hiramoto H(1),
Hamada J(1,)(2), Arita T(1), Konishi H(1), Komatsu S(1), Shiozaki A(1), Kakihara 
N(4), Okamoto K(1), Taniguchi H(4), Imoto I(5), Otsuji E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Digestive Surgery, Department of Surgery, Kyoto Prefectural
University of Medicine, 465 Kawaramachi Hirokoji Kajii-cho, Kamigyo-ku, Kyoto,
602-8566, Japan. (2)Department of Human Genetics, Institute of Health
Biosciences, The University of Tokushima Graduate School, 3-18-15 Kuramoto-cho,
Tokushima, 770-8503, Japan. (3)Division of Digestive Surgery, Department of
Surgery, Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, 465 Kawaramachi Hirokoji
Kajii-cho, Kamigyo-ku, Kyoto, 602-8566, Japan. ichikawa@koto.kpu-m.ac.jp.
(4)Department of Surgery, Kyoto Second Red Cross Hospital, 355-5 Haruobi-cho,
Kamigyo-ku, Kyoto, 602-8026, Japan. (5)Department of Human Genetics, Institute of
Health Biosciences, The University of Tokushima Graduate School, 3-18-15
Kuramoto-cho, Tokushima, 770-8503, Japan. issehgen@tokushima-u.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: We previously demonstrated the potential of circulating tumor DNA
(ctDNA) for the amplification of detecting HER2 in patients with gastric cancer
(GC). In the present study, we focused on the clinical courses of patients who
developed recurrence with GC, and investigated the potential clinical utility of 
the ddPCR-based HER2 copy number (CN) as a marker for the temporal and/or spatial
heterogeneities of GC during treatment progress.
METHOD: We enrolled 30 healthy volunteers and 60 patients with GC who underwent
surgery, including 17 patients who developed recurrence. Using ribonuclease P RNA
component H1 (RPPH1) as a reference gene, plasma HER2 to RPPH1 ratios (the HER2
ratio) were determined using ddPCR.
RESULTS: The preoperative plasma HER2 ratio correlated with the tumor HER2 status
(p < 0.001), and sensitivity and specificity were 0.733 and 0.933, respectively. 
Analyses of plasma samples during the postoperative follow-up periods revealed
that high plasma HER2 ratios were detected at the time of recurrence in 7 of 13
cases, which were diagnosed as being HER2 negative at the time of surgery. These 
results were supported by continuously increasing HER2 ratios thereafter with the
progression of recurrent cancer.
CONCLUSION: The plasma HER2 ratio determined by ddPCR is a repeatable and
noninvasive approach for real-time evaluations of the HER2 status to monitor the 
effects of treatments for patients with HER2-positive GC and enable treatment
options for patients with HER2-negative GC but positive conversion of the HER2
status after recurrence.

DOI: 10.1007/s10120-016-0599-z 
PMID: 26874951  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Sci Rep. 2016 Feb 12;6:20913. doi: 10.1038/srep20913.

Plasma EGFR T790M ctDNA status is associated with clinical outcome in advanced
NSCLC patients with acquired EGFR-TKI resistance.

Zheng D(1), Ye X(2), Zhang MZ(3), Sun Y(2), Wang JY(1), Ni J(1), Zhang HP(1),
Zhang L(1), Luo J(1), Zhang J(1), Tang L(1), Su B(1), Chen G(1), Zhu G(2), Gu
Y(2), Xu JF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Shanghai Pulmonary Hospital, Tongji University Medical School, Shanghai,
China. (2)Asia &Emerging Markets Innovative Medicine, AstraZeneca R&D, Shanghai, 
China. (3)Research and Development Information, AstraZeneca, Shanghai, China.

EGFR T790M mutation occurs in half of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients
with acquired EGFR-TKI (TKI) resistance, based on tumor re-biopsies using an
invasive clinical procedure. Here, we dynamically monitored T790M mutation in
circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) using serial plasma samples from NSCLC patients
receiving TKI through Droplet Digital PCR (ddPCR) method and the associations
between overall survival (OS) starting from initial TKI treatment and the T790M
ctDNA status detected in plasma were analyzed. Among 318 patients, 117 who
acquired TKI resistance were eligible for the analysis. T790M ctDNA was detected 
in the plasma of 55/117 (47%) patients. Almost half of the T790M ctDNA positive
patients were identified at a median time of 2.2 months prior to clinically
progressive disease (PD). Furthermore, within the patients receiving TKI
treatment at 2(nd) line or later, the T790M ctDNA positive group had
significantly shorter OS than the negative group (median OS: 26.9 months versus
NA, P = 0.0489). Our study demonstrates the feasibility of monitoring EGFR
mutation dynamics in serial plasma samples from NSCLC patients receiving TKI
therapy. T790M ctDNA can be detected in plasma before and after PD as a poor
prognostic factor.

DOI: 10.1038/srep20913 
PMCID: PMC4751431
PMID: 26867973  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. J Mol Diagn. 2016 Mar;18(2):176-89. doi: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2015.09.005. Epub 2016 
Feb 5.

Next-Generation Sequencing-Assisted DNA-Based Digital PCR for a Personalized
Approach to the Detection and Quantification of Residual Disease in Chronic
Myeloid Leukemia Patients.

Alikian M(1), Ellery P(2), Forbes M(3), Gerrard G(4), Kasperaviciute D(5),
Sosinsky A(5), Mueller M(5), Whale AS(6), Milojkovic D(7), Apperley J(3), Huggett
JF(6), Foroni L(4), Reid AG(4).

Author information: 
(1)Imperial Molecular Pathology, Imperial Healthcare Trust, Hammersmith Hospital,
London, United Kingdom; Centre for Haematology, Faculty of Medicine, Imperial
College London, London, United Kingdom. Electronic address:
m.alikian@imperial.ac.uk. (2)Imperial Molecular Pathology, Imperial Healthcare
Trust, Hammersmith Hospital, London, United Kingdom. (3)Centre for Haematology,
Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom. (4)Imperial
Molecular Pathology, Imperial Healthcare Trust, Hammersmith Hospital, London,
United Kingdom; Centre for Haematology, Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College
London, London, United Kingdom. (5)Clinical Genome Informatics Facility, Faculty 
of Medicine, Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom. (6)Molecular & Cell
Biology, LGC Limited, Queens Road, Teddington, United Kingdom. (7)Clinical
Haematology, Imperial College Healthcare National Health Institute Trust, London,
United Kingdom.

Recent studies indicate that 40% of chronic myeloid leukemia patients who achieve
sustained undetectable BCR-ABL1 transcripts on tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy 
remain disease-free after drug discontinuation. In contrast, 60% experience
return of detectable disease and have to restart treatment, thus highlighting the
need for an improved method of identifying patients with the lowest likelihood of
relapse. Here we describe the validation of a personalized DNA-based digital PCR 
(dPCR) approach for quantifying very low levels of residual disease, which
involves the rapid identification of t(9;22) fusion junctions using targeted
next-generation sequencing coupled with the use of a dPCR platform. t(9;22)
genomic breakpoints were successfully mapped in samples from 32 of 32 patients
with early stage disease. Disease quantification by DNA-based dPCR was performed 
using the Fluidigm BioMark platform on 46 follow-up samples from 6 of the 32
patients, including 36 samples that were in deep molecular remission. dPCR
detected persistent disease in 81% of molecular-remission samples, outperforming 
both RT-dPCR (25%) and DNA-based quantitative PCR (19%). We conclude that dPCR
for BCR-ABL1 DNA is the most sensitive available method of residual-disease
detection in chronic myeloid leukemia and may prove useful in the management of
tyrosine kinase inhibitor withdrawal.

Copyright © 2016 American Society for Investigative Pathology and the Association
for Molecular Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2015.09.005 
PMID: 26857065  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Gene. 2016 May 10;582(1):69-76. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2016.01.047. Epub 2016 Feb 4.

Genome-wide transcriptome analysis in the ovaries of two goats identifies
differentially expressed genes related to fecundity.

Miao X(1), Luo Q(2), Qin X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Animal Sciences, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences,
Beijing 100193, China. Electronic address: mxy32@sohu.com. (2)Institute of Animal
Sciences, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing 100193, China.

The goats are widely kept as livestock throughout the world. Two excellent
domestic breeds in China, the Laiwu Black and Jining Grey goats, have different
fecundities and prolificacies. Although the goat genome sequences have been
resolved recently, little is known about the gene regulations at the
transcriptional level in goat. To understand the molecular and genetic mechanisms
related to the fecundities and prolificacies, we performed genome-wide sequencing
of the mRNAs from two breeds of goat using the next-generation RNA-Seq technology
and used functional annotation to identify pathways of interest. Digital gene
expression analysis showed 338 genes were up-regulated in the Jining Grey goats
and 404 were up-regulated in the Laiwu Black goats. Quantitative real-time PCR
verified the reliability of the RNA-Seq data. This study suggests that multiple
genes responsible for various biological functions and signaling pathways are
differentially expressed in the two different goat breeds, and these genes might 
be involved in the regulation of goat fecundity and prolificacy. Taken together, 
our study provides insight into the transcriptional regulation in the ovaries of 
2 species of goats that might serve as a key resource for understanding goat
fecundity, prolificacy and genetic diversity between species.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2016.01.047 
PMID: 26851539  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Prenat Diagn. 2016 May;36(5):397-406. doi: 10.1002/pd.4790. Epub 2016 Apr 7.

Droplet digital PCR combined with minisequencing, a new approach to analyze fetal
DNA from maternal blood: application to the non-invasive prenatal diagnosis of
achondroplasia.

Orhant L(1), Anselem O(2), Fradin M(3), Becker PH(1), Beugnet C(1), Deburgrave
N(1), Tafuri G(1), Letourneur F(4), Goffinet F(2), Allach El Khattabi L(5),
Leturcq F(1), Bienvenu T(1,)(4), Tsatsaris V(2), Nectoux J(1,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Service de Biochimie et Génétique Moléculaire, HUPC Hôpital Cochin, Paris,
France. (2)Maternité Cochin-Port Royal, HUPC Hôpital Cochin, Paris, France.
(3)Service de Génétique Médicale, CHU de Rennes, Rennes, France. (4)INSERM,
U1016, Institut Cochin, CNRS UMR8104, Université Paris Descartes, Paris, France. 
(5)Laboratoire de Cytogénétique, HUPC Hôpital Cochin, Paris, France.

BACKGROUND: Achondroplasia is generally detected by abnormal prenatal ultrasound 
findings in the third trimester of pregnancy and then confirmed by molecular
genetic testing of fetal genomic DNA obtained by aspiration of amniotic fluid.
This invasive procedure presents a small but significant risk for both the fetus 
and mother. Therefore, non-invasive procedures using cell-free fetal DNA in
maternal plasma have been developed for the detection of the fetal achondroplasia
mutations.
METHODS: To determine whether the fetus carries the de novo mis-sense genetic
mutation at nucleotide 1138 in FGFR3 gene involved in >99% of achondroplasia
cases, we developed two independent methods: digital-droplet PCR combined with
minisequencing, which are very sensitive methods allowing detection of rare
alleles.
RESULTS: We collected 26 plasmatic samples from women carrying fetus at risk of
achondroplasia and diagnosed to date a total of five affected fetuses in maternal
blood. The sensitivity and specificity of our test are respectively 100% [95%
confidence interval, 56.6-100%] and 100% [95% confidence interval, 84.5-100%].
CONCLUSIONS: This novel, original strategy for non-invasive prenatal diagnosis of
achondroplasia is suitable for implementation in routine clinical testing and
allows considering extending the applications of these technologies in
non-invasive prenatal diagnosis of many other monogenic diseases. © 2016 John
Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pd.4790 
PMID: 26850935  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Res Vet Sci. 2016 Feb;104:64-70. doi: 10.1016/j.rvsc.2015.12.003. Epub 2015 Dec
7.

Detection and isolation of digital dermatitis treponemes from skin and tail
lesions in pigs.

Clegg SR(1), Sullivan LE(2), Bell J(2), Blowey RW(3), Carter SD(2), Evans NJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infection Biology, Institute of Infection and Global Health,
School of Veterinary Science, University of Liverpool, Liverpool Science Park
IC2, 146 Brownlow Hill, Liverpool L3 5RF, United Kingdom. Electronic address:
S.R.Clegg@liv.ac.uk. (2)Department of Infection Biology, Institute of Infection
and Global Health, School of Veterinary Science, University of Liverpool,
Liverpool Science Park IC2, 146 Brownlow Hill, Liverpool L3 5RF, United Kingdom. 
(3)University of Liverpool, and The George Veterinary Hospital, High Street
Malmesbury, Wiltshire SN16 9AU, United Kingdom.

Pig skin lesions are common significant welfare issues, and can cause large
economic losses, due to culling of severely affected animals or carcass
condemnation at slaughter. It was considered that the treponemal bacteria
associated with digital dermatitis (DD) lesions in cattle, sheep and goats may
have a role in these pig lesions. Specific diagnostic PCR assays for three
cultivable DD Treponema phylogroups were used to survey relevant porcine lesion
samples. Using these assays, DD treponemes were detected in 88% (22/25), 72%
(8/11) and 82% (14/17) of tail, ear and flank lesions, respectively. Mouth swabs 
from animals kept in enclosures with high prevalence of skin lesions were
positive for the DD treponemes, but not in enclosures with low lesion prevalence.
Culture of treponemes from skin lesions resulted in pure isolates of all three
DD-associated phylogroups. This study shows a strong association of DD treponemes
with a range of pig skin lesions.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rvsc.2015.12.003 
PMID: 26850539  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Urol Int. 2016;96(3):295-301. doi: 10.1159/000443408. Epub 2016 Feb 5.

Developing a Correct System to Evaluate the Accuracy of Gleason Score in Prostate
Cancer of Chinese Population.

Wang J(1), Cheng G, Li X, Huang Y, Pan Y, Qin C, Hua L, Wang Z.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Reproductive Medicine, Department of Urology, First
Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, China.

INTRODUCTION: A study was conducted to develop a new correct system to improve
the overall rate of Gleason sum concordance between biopsy and final pathology.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 592 consecutive patients who had undergone
transrectal ultrasound-guided prostate biopsy and radical prostatectomy were
evaluated during the first stage. Age, PSA, PSA density (PSAD), biopsy cores,
positive cores, prostate volume, positive core rate (PCR), core volume rate (CVR)
and digital rectal examination findings were considered predictive factors. A
multiple logistic regression analysis involving a backward elimination selection 
procedure and linear regression analysis involving a stepwise procedure were
applied to select independent predictors.
RESULTS: Positive cores, PCR, CVR and PSAD were included in our assessing
credibility model in the first stage. A significantly higher area under the
receiver-operating curve was obtained in our model compared with CVR alone (0.641
vs. 0.517). In the second stage, patients with credibility of pre-operative
Gleason score <0.388 were subjected to further evaluation. Compared with the 2
statuses, the rate of overall concordance was significantly increased (60.3 vs.
50.2%, p = 0.002).
CONCLUSIONS: We developed a follow-up strategy based on the new and correct
system, which represents an important consideration procedure when clinicians
make decisions with regard to treatment plans.

© 2016 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000443408 
PMID: 26849662  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. PLoS One. 2016 Feb 5;11(2):e0145613. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0145613.
eCollection 2016.

Transcriptome Analysis of Flower Sex Differentiation in Jatropha curcas L. Using 
RNA Sequencing.

Xu G(1,)(2), Huang J(3), Yang Y(3), Yao YA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute of Forest Resources and Environment, Guizhou University,
Guiyang, Guizhou, P. R. China. (2)Institute of Entomology, Guizhou University,
Guiyang, Guizhou, P. R. China. (3)Key Laboratory of Green Pesticide and
Agricultural Bioengineering, Ministry of Education, Center for Research and
Development of Fine Chemicals of Guizhou University, Guiyang, Guizhou, P. R.
China. (4)School of life science and engineering, Southwest University of Science
and Technology, Mianyang, Sichuan, P. R. China.

BACKGROUND: Jatropha curcas is thought to be a promising biofuel material, but
its yield is restricted by a low ratio of instaminate/staminate flowers
(1/10-1/30). Furthermore, valuable information about flower sex differentiation
in this plant is scarce. To explore the mechanism of this process in J. curcas,
transcriptome profiling of flower development was carried out, and certain genes 
related with sex differentiation were obtained through digital gene expression
analysis of flower buds from different phases of floral development.
RESULTS: After Illumina sequencing and clustering, 57,962 unigenes were
identified. A total of 47,423 unigenes were annotated, with 85 being related to
carpel and stamen differentiation, 126 involved in carpel and stamen development,
and 592 functioning in the later development stage for the maturation of
staminate or instaminate flowers. Annotation of these genes provided
comprehensive information regarding the sex differentiation of flowers, including
the signaling system, hormone biosynthesis and regulation, transcription
regulation and ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis. A further expression pattern
analysis of 15 sex-related genes using quantitative real-time PCR revealed that
gibberellin-regulated protein 4-like protein and AMP-activated protein kinase are
associated with stamen differentiation, whereas auxin response factor 6-like
protein, AGAMOUS-like 20 protein, CLAVATA1, RING-H2 finger protein ATL3J,
auxin-induced protein 22D, and r2r3-myb transcription factor contribute to embryo
sac development in the instaminate flower. Cytokinin oxidase, Unigene28, auxin
repressed-like protein ARP1, gibberellin receptor protein GID1 and auxin-induced 
protein X10A are involved in both stages mentioned above. In addition to its
function in the differentiation and development of the stamens, the gibberellin
signaling pathway also functions in embryo sac development for the instaminate
flower. The auxin signaling pathway also participates in both stamen development 
and embryo sac development.
CONCLUSIONS: Our transcriptome data provide a comprehensive gene expression
profile for flower sex differentiation in Jatropha curcas, as well as new clues
and information for further study in this field.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0145613 
PMCID: PMC4746058
PMID: 26848843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. PLoS One. 2016 Feb 5;11(2):e0147398. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0147398.
eCollection 2016.

Transcriptome Profiling of Beach Morning Glory (Ipomoea imperati) under Salinity 
and Its Comparative Analysis with Sweetpotato.

Solis J(1), Baisakh N(1), Brandt SR(2), Villordon A(3), La Bonte D(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Plant, Environmental, and Soil Sciences, Louisiana State University 
Agricultural Center, Baton Rouge, LA, United States of America. (2)Louisiana
Digital Media Center, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, LA, United States 
of America. (3)Sweet Potato Research Station, Louisiana State University
Agricultural Center, Chase, LA, United States of America.

The response and adaption to salt remains poorly understood for beach morning
glory [Ipomoea imperati (Vahl) Griseb], one of a few relatives of sweetpotato,
known to thrive under salty and extreme drought conditions. In order to
understand the genetic mechanisms underlying salt tolerance of a Convolvulaceae
member, a genome-wide transcriptome study was carried out in beach morning glory 
by 454 pyrosequencing. A total of 286,584 filtered reads from both salt stressed 
and unstressed (control) root and shoot tissues were assembled into 95,790
unigenes with an average length of 667 base pairs (bp) and N50 of 706 bp.
Putative differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified as transcripts
overrepresented under salt stressed tissues compared to the control, and were
placed into metabolic pathways. Most of these DEGs were involved in stress
response, membrane transport, signal transduction, transcription activity and
other cellular and molecular processes. We further analyzed the gene expression
of 14 candidate genes of interest for salt tolerance through quantitative reverse
transcription PCR (qRT-PCR) and confirmed their differential expression under
salt stress in both beach morning glory and sweetpotato. The results comparing
transcripts of I. imperati against the transcriptome of other Ipomoea species,
including sweetpotato are also presented in this study. In addition, 6,233 SSR
markers were identified, and an in silico analysis predicted that 434 primer
pairs out of 4,897 target an identifiable homologous sequence in other Ipomoea
transcriptomes, including sweetpotato. The data generated in this study will help
in understanding the basics of salt tolerance of beach morning glory and the SSR 
resources generated will be useful for comparative genomics studies and further
enhance the path to the marker-assisted breeding of sweetpotato for salt
tolerance.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0147398 
PMCID: PMC4743971
PMID: 26848754  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. BMC Genomics. 2016 Feb 4;17:96. doi: 10.1186/s12864-016-2407-x.

Identification of genes regulated by histone acetylation during root development 
in Populus trichocarpa.

Ma X(1), Zhang C(2), Zhang B(3), Yang C(4), Li S(5).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Tree Genetics and Breeding (Northeast Forestry
University), Northeast Forestry University, Harbin, 150040, China.
mxj3000@sina.com. (2)State Key Laboratory of Tree Genetics and Breeding
(Northeast Forestry University), Northeast Forestry University, Harbin, 150040,
China. fredzhang1990@163.com. (3)State Key Laboratory of Tree Genetics and
Breeding (Northeast Forestry University), Northeast Forestry University, Harbin, 
150040, China. 903253543@qq.com. (4)State Key Laboratory of Tree Genetics and
Breeding (Northeast Forestry University), Northeast Forestry University, Harbin, 
150040, China. cpyang_nefu@163.com. (5)State Key Laboratory of Tree Genetics and 
Breeding (Northeast Forestry University), Northeast Forestry University, Harbin, 
150040, China. lishujuan@126.com.

BACKGROUND: Histone deacetylases (HDACs) are key enzymes catalyzing the removal
of acetyl groups from histones. HDACs act in concert with histone
acetyltransferases (HATs) to regulate histone acetylation status, which modifies 
chromatin structure, affecting gene transcription and thus regulating multiple
biological processes such as plant growth and development. Over a decade, certain
HDACs in herbaceous plants have been deeply studied. However, functions of HDACs 
in woody plants are not well understood.
RESULTS: Histone deacetylase specific inhibitor trichostatin A (TSA) was used to 
investigate the role of HDACs in organogenesis of roots and root development in
Populus trochocarpa. The adventitious roots were regenerated and grown on medium 
supplemented with 0, 1, and 2.5 μM TSA. TSA treatment delayed root regeneration
and inhibited primary root growth. To examine the genes modified by TSA in the
regenerated roots, tag-based digital gene expression (DGE) analysis was performed
using Illumina HiSeqTM 2000. Approximately 4.5 million total clean tags were
mapped per library. The distinct clean tags for the three libraries corresponding
to 0, 1 and 2.5 μM TSA treatment were 166167, 143103 and 153507, from which
38.45%, 31.84% and 38.88% were mapped unambiguously to the unigene database,
respectively. Most of the tags were expressed at similar levels, showing a <
5-fold difference after 1 μM and 2.5 μM TSA treatments and the maximum
fold-change of the tag copy number was around 20. The expression levels of many
genes in roots were significantly altered by TSA. A total of 36 genes were
up-regulated and 1368 genes were down-regulated after 1 μM TSA treatment, while
166 genes were up-regulated and 397 genes were down-regulated after 2.5 μM TSA
treatment. Gene ontology (GO) and pathway analyses indicated that the
differentially expressed genes were related to many kinds of molecular functions 
and biological processes. The genes encoding key enzymes catalyzing gibberellin
biosynthesis were significantly down-regulated in the roots exposed to 2.5 μM TSA
and their expression changes were validated by using real-time PCR.
CONCLUSIONS: HDACs were required for de novo organogenesis and normal growth of
populus roots. DGE data provides the gene profiles in roots probably regulated by
histone acetylation during root growth and development, which will lead to a
better understanding of the mechanism controlling root development.

DOI: 10.1186/s12864-016-2407-x 
PMCID: PMC4743431
PMID: 26847576  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Cell Stress Chaperones. 2016 May;21(3):467-75. doi: 10.1007/s12192-016-0673-9.
Epub 2016 Feb 5.

The effect of heat stress on gene expression, synthesis of steroids, and
apoptosis in bovine granulosa cells.

Li L(1), Wu J(2), Luo M(2), Sun Y(2), Wang G(3).

Author information: 
(1)College of Animal Science and Technology, Nanjing Agricultural University,
Nanjing, 210095, People's Republic of China. lilian@njau.edu.cn. (2)College of
Animal Science and Technology, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing, 210095, 
People's Republic of China. (3)College of Animal Science and Technology, Nanjing 
Agricultural University, Nanjing, 210095, People's Republic of China.
glwang@njau.edu.cn.

Summer heat stress (HS) is a major contributing factor in low fertility in
lactating dairy cows in hot environments. Heat stress inhibits ovarian follicular
development leading to diminished reproductive efficiency of dairy cows during
summer. Ovarian follicle development is a complex process. During follicle
development, granulosa cells (GCs) replicate, secrete hormones, and support the
growth of the oocyte. To obtain an overview of the effects of heat stress on GCs,
digital gene expression profiling was employed to screen and identify
differentially expressed genes (DEGs; false discovery rate (FDR) ≤ 0.001, fold
change ≥2) of cultured GCs during heat stress. A total of 1211 DEGs including 175
upregulated and 1036 downregulated ones were identified, of which DEGs can be
classified into Gene Ontology (GO) categories and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and
Genomes (KEGG) pathways. The results suggested that heat stress triggers a
dramatic and complex program of altered gene expression in GCs. We hypothesized
that heat stress could induce the apoptosis and dysfunction of GCs. Real-time
reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was used to evaluate the
expression of steroidogenic genes (steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (Star),
cytochrome P-450 (CYP11A1), CYP19A1, and steroidogenic factor 1 (SF-1)) and
apoptosis-related genes (caspase-3, BCL-2, and BAX). Radio immunoassay (RIA) was 
used to analyze the level of 17β-estradiol (E2) and progesterone (P4). We also
assessed the apoptosis of GCs by flow cytometry. Our data suggested that heat
stress induced GC apoptosis through the BAX/BCL-2 pathway and reduced the
steroidogenic gene messenger RNA (mRNA) expression and E2 synthesis. These
results suggest that the decreased function of GCs may cause ovarian dysfunction 
and offer an improved understanding of the molecular mechanism responsible for
the low fertility in cattle in summer.

DOI: 10.1007/s12192-016-0673-9 
PMCID: PMC4837181
PMID: 26847372  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Compliance with ethical standards Ethics
statement In the present experiment, animal care and procedures were approved and
conducted under the established standards of Nanjing Agricultural University,
Nanjing, China. Conflict of interest The authors declare that they have no
competing interests.


514. Clin Chem Lab Med. 2016 Sep 1;54(9):1427-33. doi: 10.1515/cclm-2015-1101.

Quantitative nucleic acid amplification by digital PCR for clinical viral
diagnostics.

Zhang K, Lin G, Li J.

In the past few years, interest in the development of digital PCR (dPCR) as a
direct nucleic acid amplification technique for clinical viral diagnostics has
grown. The main advantages of dPCR over qPCR include: quantification of nucleic
acid concentrations without a calibration curve, comparable sensitivity, superior
quantitative precision, greater resistance to perturbations by inhibitors, and
increased robustness to the variability of the target sequence. In this review,
we address the application of dPCR to viral nucleic acid quantification in
clinical applications and for nucleic acid quantification standardization.
Further development is required to overcome the current limitations of dPCR in
order to realize its widespread use for viral load measurements in clinical
diagnostic applications.

DOI: 10.1515/cclm-2015-1101 
PMID: 26845722  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Methods Mol Biol. 2016;1392:103-11. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-3360-0_10.

Microfluidics-Based PCR for Fusion Transcript Detection.

Chen H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center,
1515 Holcombe Boulevard, Houston, TX, 77030, USA. hchen7@mdanderson.org.

The microfluidic technology allows the production of network of
submillimeter-size fluidic channels and reservoirs in a variety of material
systems. The microfluidic-based polymerase chain reaction (PCR) allows automated 
multiplexing of multiple samples and multiple assays simultaneously within a
network of microfluidic channels and chambers that are co-ordinated in controlled
fashion by the valves. The individual PCR reaction is performed in nanoliter
volume, which allows testing on samples with limited DNA and RNA. The
microfluidics devices are used in various types of PCR such as digital PCR and
single molecular emulsion PCR for genotyping, gene expression, and miRNA
expression. In this chapter, the use of a microfluidics-based PCR for
simultaneous screening of 14 known fusion transcripts in patients with leukemia
is described.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-3360-0_10 
PMID: 26843050  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Methods Mol Biol. 2016;1392:43-50. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-3360-0_5.

Digital PCR: Principles and Applications.

Kanagal-Shamanna R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematopathology, The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer
Center, 1515 Holcombe Blvd. Unit 72, Houston, TX, 77030, USA.
Rkanagal@mdanderson.org.

Digital PCR is a robust PCR technique that enables precise and accurate absolute 
quantitation of target molecules by diluting and partitioning of the samples into
numerous compartments. Automated partitioning can be attained by creating
"water-in-oil" emulsion (emulsion-based digital PCR) or using a chip with
microchannels (microfluidics-based digital PCR). We discuss the advantages and a 
wide variety of clinical applications of this technique. We describe the droplet 
digital RT-PCR protocol published by Jennings et al. for identification and
absolute quantitation of BCR-ABL1 transcripts.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-3360-0_5 
PMID: 26843045  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. J Virol. 2016 Mar 28;90(8):3944-52. doi: 10.1128/JVI.02638-15. Print 2016 Apr.

Replication of Human Herpesviruses Is Associated with Higher HIV DNA Levels
during Antiretroviral Therapy Started at Early Phases of HIV Infection.

Gianella S(1), Anderson CM(2), Var SR(2), Oliveira MF(2), Lada SM(2), Vargas
MV(2), Massanella M(2), Little SJ(2), Richman DD(3), Strain MC(2), Pérez-Santiago
J(2), Smith DM(3).

Author information: 
(1)University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California, USA
gianella@ucsd.edu. (2)University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California, 
USA. (3)University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California, USA Veterans
Affairs San Diego Healthcare System, San Diego, California, USA.

Asymptomatic replication of human herpesviruses (HHV) is frequent in HIV-infected
men and is associated with increased T-cell activation and HIV disease
progression. We hypothesized that the presence of replication of cytomegalovirus 
(CMV) and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) (the most frequently detected HHV) might
influence HIV DNA decay during antiretroviral therapy (ART). We investigated 607 
peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) samples from 107 CMV-seropositive,
HIV-infected men who have sex with men, who started ART within a median of 3
months from their estimated date of infection (EDI) and were monitored for a
median of 19 months thereafter. Levels of HIV, CMV, and EBV DNA and cellular HIV 
RNA were measured by droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) for each time point. Using a
general linear mixed-effect regression model, we evaluated associations between
the presence of detectable CMV DNA and EBV DNA levels and HIV DNA decay and
cellular HIV RNA levels, while adjusting for peak HIV RNA, nadir CD4(+)count,
CD4/CD8 ratio, CMV IgG levels, time from EDI to ART initiation, time from ART
initiation to virologic suppression, detectable CMV DNA pre-ART, and age. The
presence of intermittent CMV DNA in PBMC during ART was significantly associated 
with slower decay of HIV DNA (P= 0.011) but not with increased cellular HIV RNA
transcription or more detectable 2-long terminal repeat circles. Higher levels of
EBV DNA were also associated with higher levels of HIV DNA (P< 0.001) and
increased unspliced cellular HIV RNA transcription (P= 0.010). These observations
suggest that replication of HHV may help maintain a larger HIV DNA reservoir, but
the underlying mechanisms remain unclear.IMPORTANCE: Over three-fourths of
HIV-infected men have at least one actively replicating human herpesvirus (HHV)
in their mucosal secretions at any one time. Cytomegalovirus (CMV) and
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) are the most common, and although it is often
asymptomatic, such CMV and EBV replication is associated with higher levels of
immune activation and HIV disease progression. We hypothesized that
HHV-associated activation of HIV-infected CD4(+)T cells might lead to increased
HIV DNA. This study found that detectable CMV in blood cells of HIV-infected men 
was associated with slower decay of HIV DNA even during antiretroviral therapy
(ART) that was started during early HIV infection. Similarly, levels of EBV DNA
were associated with higher levels of HIV DNA during ART. If this observation
points to a causal pathway, interventions that control CMV and EBV replication
may be able to reduce the HIV reservoir, which might be relevant to current HIV
cure efforts.

Copyright © 2016, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.02638-15 
PMCID: PMC4810527
PMID: 26842469  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Anal Chem. 2016 Mar 1;88(5):2590-5. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.5b02960. Epub 2016 
Feb 16.

Monochrome Multiplexing in Polymerase Chain Reaction by Photobleaching of
Fluorogenic Hydrolysis Probes.

Schuler F(1,)(2), Trotter M(1), Zengerle R(1,)(2,)(3), von Stetten F(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Hahn-Schickard , Georges-Koehler-Allee 103, 79110 Freiburg, Germany.
(2)Laboratory for MEMS Applications, IMTEK-Department of Microsystems
Engineering, University of Freiburg , Georges-Koehler-Allee 103, 79110 Freiburg, 
Germany. (3)BIOSS-Centre for Biological Signalling Studies, University of
Freiburg , 79110 Freiburg, Germany.

Multiplexing in polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a technique widely used to
save cost and sample material and to increase sensitivity compared to
distributing a sample to several singleplex reactions. One of the most common
methods to detect the different amplification products is the use of fluorogenic 
probes that emit at different wavelengths (colors). To reduce the number of
detection channels, several methods for monochrome multiplexing have been
suggested. However, they pose restrictions to the amplifiable target length, the 
sequence, or the melting temperature. To circumvent these limitations, we suggest
a novel approach that uses different fluorophores with the same emission maximum.
Discrimination is achieved by their different fluorescence stability during
photobleaching. Atto488 (emitting at the same wavelength as 6-carboxyfluorescein,
FAM) and Atto467N (emitting at the same wavelength as cyanine 5, Cy5) were found 
to bleach significantly less than FAM and Cy5; i.e., the final fluorescence of
Atto dyes was more than tripled compared to FAM and Cy5. We successfully applied 
this method by performing a 4-plex PCR targeting antibiotic resistance genes in
S. aureus using only 2 color channels. Confidence of discrimination between the
targets was >99.9% at high copy initial copy numbers of 100 000 copies. Cases
where both targets were present could be discriminated with equal confidence for 
Cy5 channel and reduced levels of confidence (>68%) for FAM channel. Moreover, a 
2-plex digital PCR reaction in 1 color channel was shown. In the future, the
degree of multiplexing may be increased by adding fluorogenic probe pairs with
other emission wavelengths. The method may also be applied to other probe and
assay formats, such as Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET) probes and
immunoassays.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.5b02960 
PMID: 26840905 


519. Ther Adv Hematol. 2016 Feb;7(1):3-16. doi: 10.1177/2040620715614529.

Monitoring minimal residual disease in acute myeloid leukaemia: a review of the
current evolving strategies.

Ommen HB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology, Aarhus University Hospital, Tage-Hansens gade 2,
Aarhus C, 8000, Denmark.

Several disease-monitoring techniques are available for the physician treating
acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). Besides immunohistochemistry assisted light
microscopy, the past 20 years have seen the development and preclinical
perfection of a number of techniques, most notably quantitative polymerase chain 
reaction (PCR) and multicolor flow cytometry. Late additions to the group of
applicable assays include next generation sequencing and digital PCR. In this
review the principles of use of these modalities at three different time points
during the AML disease course are discussed, namely at the time of treatment
evaluation, pretransplantation and postconsolidation. The drawbacks and pitfalls 
of each different technique are delineated. The evidence or lack of evidence for 
minimal residual disease guided treatment decisions is discussed. Lastly, future 
strategies in the MRD field are suggested and commented upon.

DOI: 10.1177/2040620715614529 
PMCID: PMC4713887
PMID: 26834951 


520. Sci Rep. 2016 Feb 2;6:20064. doi: 10.1038/srep20064.

Digital detection of endonuclease mediated gene disruption in the HIV provirus.

Sedlak RH(1), Liang S(1), Niyonzima N(2), De Silva Feelixge HS(2), Roychoudhury
P(2), Greninger AL(1), Weber ND(2), Boissel S(3), Scharenberg AM(3,)(4), Cheng
A(5), Magaret A(1,)(2,)(5), Bumgarner R(6), Stone D(2), Jerome KR(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA,
98195, USA. (2)Vaccine and Infectious Disease Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer
Research Center, Seattle, WA, 98102, USA. (3)Seattle Children's Research
Institute, Seattle, WA, 98101, USA. (4)University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA, 98195, USA. (5)Department of Biostatistics, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA, 98195, USA. (6)Department of Microbiology, University of
Washington, Seattle, WA, 98195, USA.

Genome editing by designer nucleases is a rapidly evolving technology utilized in
a highly diverse set of research fields. Among all fields, the T7 endonuclease
mismatch cleavage assay, or Surveyor assay, is the most commonly used tool to
assess genomic editing by designer nucleases. This assay, while relatively easy
to perform, provides only a semi-quantitative measure of mutation efficiency that
lacks sensitivity and accuracy. We demonstrate a simple droplet digital PCR assay
that quickly quantitates a range of indel mutations with detection as low as
0.02% mutant in a wild type background and precision (≤6%CV) and accuracy
superior to either mismatch cleavage assay or clonal sequencing when compared to 
next-generation sequencing. The precision and simplicity of this assay will
facilitate comparison of gene editing approaches and their optimization,
accelerating progress in this rapidly-moving field.

DOI: 10.1038/srep20064 
PMCID: PMC4735761
PMID: 26829887  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. PLoS One. 2016 Jan 29;11(1):e0147832. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0147832.
eCollection 2016.

A Novel High-Throughput Method for Molecular Detection of Human Pathogenic
Viruses Using a Nanofluidic Real-Time PCR System.

Coudray-Meunier C(1), Fraisse A(1), Martin-Latil S(1), Delannoy S(2), Fach P(2), 
Perelle S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Université Paris-Est, ANSES, Food Safety Laboratory, Enteric viruses Unit, 14 
rue Pierre et Marie Curie, 94701 Maisons-Alfort Cedex, France. (2)Université
Paris-Est, ANSES, Food Safety Laboratory, Identypath, 14 rue Pierre et Marie
Curie, 94701 Maisons-Alfort Cedex, France.

Human enteric viruses are recognized as the main causes of food- and waterborne
diseases worldwide. Sensitive and quantitative detection of human enteric viruses
is typically achieved through quantitative RT-PCR (RT-qPCR). A nanofluidic
real-time PCR system was used to develop novel high-throughput methods for
qualitative molecular detection (RT-qPCR array) and quantification of human
pathogenic viruses by digital RT-PCR (RT-dPCR). The performance of
high-throughput PCR methods was investigated for detecting 19 human pathogenic
viruses and two main process controls used in food virology. The conventional
real-time PCR system was compared to the RT-dPCR and RT-qPCR array. Based on the 
number of genome copies calculated by spectrophotometry, sensitivity was found to
be slightly better with RT-qPCR than with RT-dPCR for 14 viruses by a factor
range of from 0.3 to 1.6 log10. Conversely, sensitivity was better with RT-dPCR
than with RT-qPCR for seven viruses by a factor range of from 0.10 to 1.40 log10.
Interestingly, the number of genome copies determined by RT-dPCR was always from 
1 to 2 log10 lower than the expected copy number calculated by RT-qPCR standard
curve. The sensitivity of the RT-qPCR and RT-qPCR array assays was found to be
similar for two viruses, and better with RT-qPCR than with RT-qPCR array for
eighteen viruses by a factor range of from 0.7 to 3.0 log10. Conversely,
sensitivity was only 0.30 log10 better with the RT-qPCR array than with
conventional RT-qPCR assays for norovirus GIV detection. Finally, the RT-qPCR
array and RT-dPCR assays were successfully used together to screen clinical
samples and quantify pathogenic viruses. Additionally, this method made it
possible to identify co-infection in clinical samples. In conclusion, given the
rapidity and potential for large numbers of viral targets, this nanofluidic
RT-qPCR assay should have a major impact on human pathogenic virus surveillance
and outbreak investigations and is likely to be of benefit to public health.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0147832 
PMCID: PMC4732599
PMID: 26824897  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Kansenshogaku Zasshi. 2015 Nov;89(6):720-6.

[Infectivity Titers of Each Component of the Influenza Virus in the Live Vaccine 
Purchased from a Parallel Import Distributing System].

[Article in Japanese]

Sato K, Kikuchi Y, Masago Y, Ohmiya S, Ito H, Omura T, Nishimura H.

Currently in Japan, the only approved influenza vaccine is the inactivated
vaccine which is injected subcutaneously. On the other hand, there is a live
vaccine available elsewhere in the world. Flumist, an intranasal influenza live
vaccine which contains four strains of infectious viruses, has been used in the
United States for more than 10 years; the vaccine has been found effective in
clinical trials, while it has some limitations such as those on subjects for the 
administration, strict storage conditions, relatively short expiration date etc. 
It is not yet approved in Japan, but available through personal import by some
medical institutions, and prescribed based on the decision of the doctor.
However, in Japan, there is no checking system whether the vaccine contains
appropriate amounts of infectious viruses or not. In the present study, we
purchased 2013-14 and 2014-15 years' lots of Flumist from a parallel importer and
measured the amount of infectious viruses of each component of them using the
focus assay. Consequently, for type A influenza viruses, the titers of both of
H1N1pdm09 and H3N2 viruses in the 2013-14's lot were 1/30 of the lower limit of
those shown in the package insert and 1/10 in 2014-15's lot, while those of type 
B viruses, both of B/Massachusetts and B/Brisbane viruses marginally cleared the 
lower limit. The digital PCR analysis showed that the absolute genome copy
numbers of type A viruses were 1/10 of those of type B viruses. The relatively
higher titer of B/Massachusetts also gradually decreased over time during its
storage at 4°C and finally reached the lower limit at about one week before the
expiration date. In case it is approved officially in the future to be used in
Japan, some studies will be required to elucidate the minimum viral titers of the
components necessary for effective live vaccine. In addition, there should be a
system to check the titer during the distribution process in Japan.


PMID: 26821520  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. BMC Bioinformatics. 2016 Jan 11;17 Suppl 1:3. doi: 10.1186/s12859-015-0848-x.

Gene expression profiling identifies candidate biomarkers for active and latent
tuberculosis.

Lee SW(1,)(2), Wu LS(3), Huang GM(4), Huang KY(5), Lee TY(6,)(7), Weng JT(8,)(9).

Author information: 
(1)Taoyuan General Hospital, Ministry of Health and Welfare, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
swl@mail.tygh.gov.tw. (2)Department of Life Sciences, National Central
University, Taoyuan, Taiwan. swl@mail.tygh.gov.tw. (3)Institute of Medical
Sciences, Tzu Chi University, Hualien, Taiwan. lshwu@hotmail.com. (4)Department
of Computer Science and Engineering, Yuan Ze University, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
koko5696@gmail.com. (5)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Yuan Ze
University, Taoyuan, Taiwan. kaiyao.tw@gmail.com. (6)Department of Computer
Science and Engineering, Yuan Ze University, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
francis@saturn.yzu.edu.tw. (7)Innovation Center for Big Data and Digital
Convergence, Yuan Ze University, Taoyuan, Taiwan. francis@saturn.yzu.edu.tw.
(8)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Yuan Ze University, Taoyuan,
Taiwan. julweng@saturn.yzu.edu.tw. (9)Innovation Center for Big Data and Digital 
Convergence, Yuan Ze University, Taoyuan, Taiwan. julweng@saturn.yzu.edu.tw.

BACKGROUND: Tuberculosis (TB) is a serious infectious disease in that 90% of
those latently infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis present no symptoms, but 
possess a 10% lifetime chance of developing active TB. To prevent the spread of
the disease, early diagnosis is crucial. However, current methods of detection
require improvement in sensitivity, efficiency or specificity. In the present
study, we conducted a microarray experiment, comparing the gene expression
profiles in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells among individuals with active 
TB, latent infection, and healthy conditions in a Taiwanese population.
RESULTS: Bioinformatics analysis revealed that most of the differentially
expressed genes belonged to immune responses, inflammation pathways, and cell
cycle control. Subsequent RT-PCR validation identified four differentially
expressed genes, NEMF, ASUN, DHX29, and PTPRC, as potential biomarkers for the
detection of active and latent TB infections. Receiver operating characteristic
analysis showed that the expression level of PTPRC may discriminate active TB
patients from healthy individuals, while ASUN could differentiate between the
latent state of TB infection and healthy condidtion. In contrast, DHX29 may be
used to identify latently infected individuals among active TB patients or
healthy individuals. To test the concept of using these biomarkers as diagnostic 
support, we constructed classification models using these candidate biomarkers
and found the Naïve Bayes-based model built with ASUN, DHX29, and PTPRC to yield 
the best performance.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrated that gene expression profiles in the blood
can be used to identify not only active TB patients, but also to differentiate
latently infected patients from their healthy counterparts. Validation of the
constructed computational model in a larger sample size would confirm the
reliability of the biomarkers and facilitate the development of a cost-effective 
and sensitive molecular diagnostic platform for TB.

DOI: 10.1186/s12859-015-0848-x 
PMCID: PMC4895247
PMID: 26818387  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. J Med Assoc Thai. 2015 Oct;98 Suppl 9:S140-5.

Comparison of Droplet Digital PCR and Real Time PCR Method for HBV DNA
Quantification.

Wongjitrat C, Horthongkham N, Sutthent R, Srisurapanon S.

BACKGROUND: HBV infection causes a potential serious public health problem. The
ability to detect HBV DNA concentration is an important issue that had been
continuously improved. When using quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), 
several factors are of concern, for example, sources of material, standard curve 
calibration, and PCR efficiency. Digital PCR (dPCR) is an alternative PCR-based
technique for absolute quantification using Poisson's statistics without
requiring a standard curve.
OBJECTIVE: Compare the data set of HBV DNA generated between dPCR and qPCR
methods.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Fifty-four samples were quantified by Abbot's real time PCR
and with 2-6 log10 HBV DNA were selected for comparison with dPCR.
RESULTS: Of these 54 samples, there were two outlier samples defined as negative 
by dPCR, whereas 52 samples were positive by both of these assays. The difference
between two assays was less than 0.25 log IU/mL in 24/52 samples (46%) of paired 
samples; less than 0.5 log IU/mL in 46/52 samples (88%) and less than 1 log in
50/52 samples (96%). The correlation coefficient (r) was 0.788 (p-value <
0.0001). Comparison with qPCR method, data generated by dPCR tend to be an
overestimation in the sample with the low level ofHBVDNA concentration and
underestimated in the sample with high viral load. The variation of DNA by dPCR
measurement might be due to the pre-amplification procedure and PCR template.
CONCLUSION: Measurement of HBV DNA by using dPCR, the results ofthe HBV DNA copy 
number tended to be deviated by over- or under-estimated when comparison to real 
time PCR method. In addition, a large quantity of DNA was used when compared to
qPCR. However, the optimum processes of this assay have to be further
investigated.


PMID: 26817223  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Parasit Vectors. 2016 Jan 27;9:30. doi: 10.1186/s13071-016-1308-9.

Can corneal pannus with trachomatous inflammation--follicular be used in
combination as an improved specific clinical sign for current ocular Chlamydia
trachomatis infection?

Derrick T(1), Holland MJ(2), Cassama E(3), Markham-David R(4), Nabicassa M(5),
Marks M(6), Bailey RL(7), Last AR(8).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Research Department, Faculty of Infectious and Tropical Diseases,
London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
tamsyn.derrick@lshtm.ac.uk. (2)Clinical Research Department, Faculty of
Infectious and Tropical Diseases, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine,
London, UK. martin.holland@lshtm.ac.uk. (3)Programa Nacional de Saude de Visao,
Ministerio de Saude Publica, Bissau, Guinea Bissau. eunitxsil@gmail.com.
(4)Clinical Research Department, Faculty of Infectious and Tropical Diseases,
London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK. rodmd@hotmail.co.uk. 
(5)Programa Nacional de Saude de Visao, Ministerio de Saude Publica, Bissau,
Guinea Bissau. pnlcegueira@yahoo.com.br. (6)Clinical Research Department, Faculty
of Infectious and Tropical Diseases, London School of Hygiene and Tropical
Medicine, London, UK. Michael.Marks@lshtm.ac.uk. (7)Clinical Research Department,
Faculty of Infectious and Tropical Diseases, London School of Hygiene and
Tropical Medicine, London, UK. Robin.Bailey@lshtm.ac.uk. (8)Clinical Research
Department, Faculty of Infectious and Tropical Diseases, London School of Hygiene
and Tropical Medicine, London, UK. Anna.Last@lshtm.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Trachoma is a blinding disease caused by conjunctival infection with 
Chlamydia trachomatis (Ct). Mass drug administration (MDA) for trachoma control
is administered based on the population prevalence of the clinical sign of
trachomatis inflammation - follicular (TF). However, the prevalence of TF is
often much higher than the prevalence of Ct infection. The addition of a clinical
sign specific for current ocular Ct infection to TF could save resources by
preventing unnecessary additional rounds of MDA.
METHODS: Study participants were aged between 1-9 years and resided on 7 islands 
of the Bijagos Archipelago, Guinea Bissau. Clinical grades for trachoma and
corneal pannus and ocular swab samples were taken from 80 children with TF and
from 81 matched controls without clinical evidence of trachoma. Ct infection
testing was performed using droplet digital PCR.
RESULTS: New pannus was significantly associated with Ct infection after
adjustment for TF (P = 0.009, OR = 3.65 (1.4-9.8)). Amongst individuals with TF, 
individuals with new pannus had significantly more Ct infection than individuals 
with none or old pannus (75.0% vs 45.5%, Chi(2) P = 0.01). TF and new pannus
together provide a highly specific (91.7%), but a poorly sensitive (51.9%)
clinical diagnostic test for Ct infection.
CONCLUSIONS: As we move towards trachoma elimination it may be desirable to use a
combined clinical sign (new pannus in addition to TF) that is highly specific for
current ocular Ct infection. This would allow national health systems to obtain a
more accurate estimate of Ct population prevalence to inform further need for MDA
without the expense of Ct molecular diagnostics, which are currently unaffordable
in programmatic contexts.

DOI: 10.1186/s13071-016-1308-9 
PMCID: PMC4729176
PMID: 26812948 


526. AIDS. 2016 Mar 27;30(6):839-48. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0000000000001027.

Mitochondrial injury and cognitive function in HIV infection and methamphetamine 
use.

Var SR(1), Day TR, Vitomirov A, Smith DM, Soontornniyomkij V, Moore DJ, Achim CL,
Mehta SR, Pérez-Santiago J.

Author information: 
(1)aUniversity of California San Diego, La Jolla, California, USA bVeterans
Administration San Diego Healthcare System, San Diego, California, USA. *Sanjay
R. Mehta and Josué Pérez-Santiago contributed equally to the writing of this
article.

OBJECTIVE: In this work, we evaluated the association of human immunodeficiency
virus (HIV) infection and methamphetamine (METH) use with mitochondrial injury in
the brain and its implication on neurocognitive impairment.
DESIGN: Mitochondria carry their genome (mtDNA) and play a critical role in
cellular processes in the central nervous system. METH is commonly used in
HIV-infected populations. HIV infection and METH use can cause damage to mtDNA
and lead to neurocognitive morbidity. We evaluated HIV infection and METH use
with mitochondrial injury in the brain.
METHODS: We obtained white and gray matter from Brodmann areas 7, 8, 9, 46 of the
following: HIV-infected individuals with history of past METH use (HIV+METH+,
n = 16), HIV-infected individuals with no history of past METH use (HIV+METH-,
n = 11), and HIV-negative controls (HIV-METH-, n = 30). We used the 'common
deletion', a 4977 bp mutation, as a measurement of mitochondrial injury, and
quantified levels of mtDNA and 'common deletion' by droplet digital PCR, and
evaluated in relation to neurocognitive functioning [Global Deficit Score (GDS)].
RESULTS: Levels of mtDNA and mitochondrial injury were highest in white matter of
Brodmann area 46. A higher relative proportion of mtDNA carrying the 'common
deletion' was associated with lower GDS (P < 0.01) in HIV+METH+ but higher GDS
(P < 0.01) in HIV+METH-.
CONCLUSIONS: Increased mitochondrial injury was associated with worse
neurocognitive function in HIV+METH- individuals. Among HIV+METH+ individuals, an
opposite effect was seen.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0000000000001027 
PMCID: PMC4785088 [Available on 2017-03-27]
PMID: 26807965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Alzheimers Dement. 2016 May;12(5):546-55. doi: 10.1016/j.jalz.2015.12.011. Epub
2016 Jan 21.

Mitochondrial DNA differentiates Alzheimer's disease from
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.

Podlesniy P(1), Llorens F(2), Golanska E(3), Sikorska B(3), Liberski P(3), Zerr
I(2), Trullas R(4).

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology Unit, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques de Barcelona, Consejo
Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC), Barcelona, Spain; Centro de
Investigación Biomédica en Red sobre Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), 
Barcelona, Spain. (2)Department of Neurology, Clinical Dementia Center,
University Medical School, Georg-August University and German Center for
Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Göttingen, Germany. (3)Department of Molecular
Pathology and Neuropathology, Medical University, Lodz, Poland. (4)Neurobiology
Unit, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques de Barcelona, Consejo Superior de
Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC), Barcelona, Spain; Centro de Investigación
Biomédica en Red sobre Enfermedades Neurodegenerativas (CIBERNED), Barcelona,
Spain; Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS),
Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: ramon.trullas@iibb.csic.es.

INTRODUCTION: Low content of cell-free mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) in cerebrospinal
fluid (CSF) is a biomarker of early stage Alzheimer's disease (AD), but whether
mtDNA is altered in a rapid neurodegenerative dementia such as Creutzfeldt-Jakob 
disease is unknown.
METHODS: CSF mtDNA was measured using digital polymerase chain reaction (dPCR) in
two independent cohorts comprising a total of 112 patients diagnosed with
sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (sCJD), probable AD, or non-Alzheimer's type
dementia.
RESULTS: Patients with AD exhibit low mtDNA content in CSF compared with patients
diagnosed with sCJD or with non-Alzheimer's type dementias. The CSF concentration
of mtDNA does not correlate with Aβ, t-tau, p-tau, and 14-3-3 protein levels in
CSF.
DISCUSSION: Low-CSF mtDNA is not a consequence of brain damage and allows the
differential diagnosis of AD from sCJD and other dementias. These results support
the hypothesis that mtDNA in CSF is a pathophysiological biomarker of AD.

Copyright © 2015 Alzheimer's Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jalz.2015.12.011 
PMID: 26806388 


528. Am J Hum Genet. 2016 Feb 4;98(2):339-46. doi: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2015.12.007. Epub
2016 Jan 21.

Mitotic Intragenic Recombination: A Mechanism of Survival for Several Congenital 
Disorders of Glycosylation.

Kane MS(1), Davids M(2), Adams C(2), Wolfe LA(3), Cheung HW(2), Gropman A(4),
Huang Y(2); NISC Comparative Sequencing Program, Ng BG(5), Freeze HH(5), Adams
DR(2), Gahl WA(6), Boerkoel CF(7).

Author information: 
(1)NIH Undiagnosed Diseases Program, Common Fund, Office of the Director, NIH,
Bethesda, MD 20892, USA; National Human Genome Research Institute, NIH, Bethesda,
MD 20892, USA. Electronic address: megan.kane@nih.gov. (2)NIH Undiagnosed
Diseases Program, Common Fund, Office of the Director, NIH, Bethesda, MD 20892,
USA; National Human Genome Research Institute, NIH, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(3)NIH Undiagnosed Diseases Program, Common Fund, Office of the Director, NIH,
Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. (4)NIH Undiagnosed Diseases Program, Common Fund, Office
of the Director, NIH, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA; Department of Neurology,
Children's National Medical Center, Washington, DC 20010, USA. (5)Human Genetics 
Program, Sanford Burnham Prebys Medical Discovery Institute, La Jolla, CA 92037, 
USA. (6)NIH Undiagnosed Diseases Program, Common Fund, Office of the Director,
NIH, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA; National Human Genome Research Institute, NIH,
Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. Electronic address: gahlw@helix.nih.gov. (7)Department
of Medical Genetics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC V6H 3N1,
Canada.

Congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDGs) are disorders of abnormal protein
glycosylation that affect multiple organ systems. Because most CDGs have been
described in only a few individuals, our understanding of the associated
phenotypes and the mechanisms of individual survival are limited. In the process 
of studying two siblings, aged 6 and 11 years, with MOGS-CDG and biallelic MOGS
(mannosyl-oligosaccharide glucosidase) mutations (GenBank: NM_006302.2; c.[65C>A;
329G>A] p.[Ala22Glu; Arg110His]; c.[370C>T] p.[Gln124(∗)]), we noted that their
survival was much longer than the previous report of MOGS-CDG, in a child who
died at 74 days of age. Upon mutation analysis, we detected multiple MOGS
genotypes including wild-type alleles in their cultured fibroblast and peripheral
blood DNA. Further analysis of DNA from cultured fibroblasts of six individuals
with compound heterozygous mutations of PMM2 (PMM2-CDG), MPI (MPI-CDG), ALG3
(ALG3-CDG), ALG12 (ALG12-CDG), DPAGT1 (DPAGT1-CDG), and ALG1 (ALG1-CDG) also
identified multiple genotypes including wild-type alleles for each. Droplet
digital PCR showed a ratio of nearly 1:1 wild-type to mutant alleles for most,
but not all, mutations. This suggests that mitotic recombination contributes to
the survival and the variable expressivity of individuals with compound
heterozygous CDGs. This also provides an explanation for prior observations of a 
reduced frequency of homozygous mutations and might contribute to increased
levels of residual enzyme activity in cultured fibroblasts of individuals with
MPI- and PMM2-CDGs.

Copyright © 2016 The American Society of Human Genetics. Published by Elsevier
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2015.12.007 
PMCID: PMC4746335
PMID: 26805780  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2015 Nov;42(12):1472-4.

[A Case of Pathologically Complete Response of a Rectal Cancer after Preoperative
Treatment with mFOLFOX6 and Radiation Therapy].

[Article in Japanese]

Note H(1), Shimizu S, Ariga T, Suzuki K, Kobayashi H, Sawada N, Kanada Y, Senba
Y, Yoshioka T, Sato Y, Miyazaki A, Natsume T, Matsuzaki H, Tanaka H, Maruyama T.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Surgery, Funabashi Municipal Medical Center.

A 60-year-old man who had bloody stools after sigmoid colonoscopy was admitted to
our hospital. A digital examination and sigmoid colonoscopy showed a type 2
circular tumor at location Rb with incomplete mobility and tumor hemorrhage, and 
the result of a biopsy was moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma (tub2).
Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging suggested a possibility of
invasion of the primary rectal tumor to the sacrum. The clinical stage was
cT4bN0M0H0P0, cStage Ⅱ, which is generally not treatable by surgery. Sigmoid
colostomy was performed, and a central venous port was implanted. After a
preoperative treatment consisting of 3 courses of mFOLFOX6 and radiation therapy,
the clinical stage changed to ycT2N0M0H0P0, ycStageⅠ. Super-low anterior
resection and covering ileostomy were performed 46 days after the preoperative
treatment. A pathological examination revealed no residual cancer cells in the
primary lesion and lymph node (Grade 3, pCR). The patient has been disease-free
for 4 years and 9 months after the operation.


PMID: 26805067  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Eur Urol. 2016 Jul;70(1):75-82. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2016.01.007. Epub 2016 Jan 
20.

Genomic Alterations in Liquid Biopsies from Patients with Bladder Cancer.

Birkenkamp-Demtröder K(1), Nordentoft I(2), Christensen E(2), Høyer S(3), Reinert
T(2), Vang S(2), Borre M(4), Agerbæk M(5), Jensen JB(4), Ørntoft TF(2), Dyrskjøt 
L(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus N,
Denmark. Electronic address: kbdr@clin.au.dk. (2)Department of Molecular
Medicine, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus N, Denmark. (3)Department of
Pathology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus C, Denmark. (4)Department of
Urology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus N, Denmark. (5)Department of
Oncology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus C, Denmark. (6)Department of
Molecular Medicine, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus N, Denmark. Electronic
address: lars@clin.au.dk.

Comment in
    Ann Transl Med. 2016 Oct;4(19):379.
    Transl Androl Urol. 2016 Dec;5(6):980-983.

BACKGROUND: At least half of the patients diagnosed with non-muscle-invasive
bladder cancer (NMIBC) experience recurrence and approximately 15% will develop
progression to muscle invasive or metastatic disease. Biomarkers for disease
surveillance are urgently needed.
OBJECTIVE: Development of assays for surveillance using genomic variants in
cell-free tumour DNA from plasma and urine.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Retrospective pilot study of 377 samples from 
12 patients with recurrent or progressive/metastatic disease. Three
next-generation sequencing methods were applied and somatic variants in DNA from 
tumour, plasma, and urine were subsequently monitored by personalised assays
using droplet digital polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR). Samples were collected
from 1994 to 2015, with up to 20 yr of follow-up.
OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: Progression to muscle-invasive or 
metastatic bladder cancer; t test for ddPCR data.
RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: We developed from one to six personalised assays per
patient. Patients with progressive disease showed significantly higher levels of 
tumour DNA in plasma and urine before disease progression, compared with patients
with recurrent disease (p=0.032 and 1.3×10(-6), respectively). Interestingly,
tumour DNA was detected in plasma and urine in patients with noninvasive disease,
being no longer detectable in disease-free patients. A significant level of
heterogeneity was observed for each patient; this could be due to tumour
heterogeneity or assay performance.
CONCLUSIONS: Cell-free tumour DNA can be detected in plasma and urine, even in
patients with noninvasive disease, with high levels of tumour DNA detectable
before progression, especially in urine samples. Personalised assays of genomic
variants may be useful for disease monitoring.
PATIENT SUMMARY: Tumour DNA can be detected in blood and urine in early and
advanced stages of bladder cancer. Measurement of these highly tumour-specific
biomarkers may represent a novel diagnostic tool to indicate the presence of
residual disease or to discover aggressive forms of bladder cancer early in the
disease course.

Copyright © 2016 European Association of Urology. Published by Elsevier B.V. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2016.01.007 
PMID: 26803478 


531. PLoS One. 2016 Jan 22;11(1):e0146946. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0146946.
eCollection 2016.

Integrative Analysis of the microRNAome and Transcriptome Illuminates the
Response of Susceptible Rice Plants to Rice Stripe Virus.

Yang J(1), Zhang F(1,)(2), Li J(1), Chen JP(1), Zhang HM(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory Breeding Base for Zhejiang Sustainable Pest and Disease
Control, Key Laboratory of Biotechnology in Plant Protection of MOA and Zhejiang 
Province, Institute of Virology and Biotechnology, Zhejiang Academy of
Agricultural Sciences, Hangzhou, 310021, China. (2)College of Chemistry and Life 
Science, Zhejiang Normal University, Jinhua, 321004, China.

Rice stripe virus (RSV) is one of the most serious rice viruses in East Asia. To 
investigate how rice responds to RSV infection, we integrated miRNA expression
with parallel mRNA transcription profiling by deep sequencing. A total of 570
miRNAs were identified of which 69 miRNAs (56 up-regulated and 13 down-regulated)
were significantly modified by RSV infection. Digital gene expression (DGE)
analysis showed that 1274 mRNAs (431 up-regulated and 843 down-regulated genes)
were differentially expressed as a result of RSV infection. The differential
expression of selected miRNAs and mRNAs was confirmed by qRT-PCR. Gene ontology
(GO) and pathway enrichment analysis showed that a complex set of miRNA and mRNA 
networks were selectively regulated by RSV infection. In particular, 63
differentially expressed miRNAs were found to be significantly and negatively
correlated with 160 target mRNAs. Interestingly, 22 up-regulated miRNAs were
negatively correlated with 24 down-regulated mRNAs encoding disease
resistance-related proteins, indicating that the host defense responses were
selectively suppressed by RSV infection. The suppression of both osa-miR1423-5p- 
and osa-miR1870-5p-mediated resistance pathways was further confirmed by qRT-PCR.
Chloroplast functions were also targeted by RSV, especially the zeaxanthin cycle,
which would affect the stability of thylakoid membranes and the biosynthesis of
ABA. All these modifications may contribute to viral symptom development and
provide new insights into the pathogenicity mechanisms of RSV.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0146946 
PMCID: PMC4723043
PMID: 26799317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Cancer Genet. 2016 Mar;209(3):107-11. doi: 10.1016/j.cancergen.2015.12.003. Epub 
2015 Dec 17.

Disruption of the APC gene by t(5;7) translocation in a Turcot family.

Sahnane N(1), Bernasconi B(2), Carnevali I(3), Furlan D(2), Viel A(4), Sessa
F(2), Tibiletti MG(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgical and Morphological Sciences, University of Insubria, via
O. Rossi 9, IT-21100 Varese, Italy. Electronic address: n.sahnane@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Surgical and Morphological Sciences, University of Insubria, via
O. Rossi 9, IT-21100 Varese, Italy. (3)Ospedale di Circolo di Varese, Unit of
Pathology, via O. Rossi 9, IT-21100 Varese, Italy. (4)CRO Aviano National Cancer 
Institute, Unit of Experimental Oncology 1, via F. Gallini 2, IT-33081 Aviano,
PN, Italy.

Turcot syndrome (TS) refers to the combination of colorectal polyps and primary
tumours of the central nervous system. TS is a heterogeneous genetic condition
due to APC and/or mismatch repair germline mutations. When APC is involved the
vast majority of mutations are truncating, but in approximately 20%-30% of
patients with familial polyposis no germline mutation can be found. A 30-year-old
Caucasian woman with a positive pedigree for TS was referred to our Genetic
Counselling Service. She was negative for APC and MUTYH but showed a reciprocal
balanced translocation t(5;7)(q22;p15) at chromosome analysis. FISH analysis
using specific BAC probes demonstrated that 5q22 breakpoint disrupted the APC
gene. Transcript analysis by MLPA and digital PCR revealed that the cytogenetic
rearrangement involving the 3' end of the APC gene caused a defective expression 
of a truncated transcript. This result allowed cytogenetic analysis to be offered
to all the other family members and segregation analysis clearly demonstrated
that all the carriers were affected, whereas non-carriers did not have the
polyposis. A cytogenetic approach permitted the identification of the
mutation-causing disease in this family, and the segregation analysis together
with the transcript study supported the pathogenetic role of this mutation.
Karyotype analysis was used as a predictive test in all members of this family.
This family suggests that clinically positive TS and FAP cases, which test
negative with standard molecular analysis, could be easily and cost-effectively
resolved by a classical and molecular cytogenetic approach.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cancergen.2015.12.003 
PMID: 26797314  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Vet Dermatol. 2016 Apr;27(2):106-12e29. doi: 10.1111/vde.12286. Epub 2016 Jan 21.

Isolation of digital dermatitis treponemes from cattle hock skin lesions.

Clegg SR(1), Bell J(1), Ainsworth S(1), Blowey RW(1,)(2), Bell NJ(3), Carter
SD(1), Evans NJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infection Biology, Institute of Infection and Global Health,
School of Veterinary Science, University of Liverpool, Liverpool Science Park
IC2, 146 Brownlow Hill, Liverpool, L3 5RF, UK. (2)Wood Veterinary Group, 125
Bristol Road, Quedgeley, Gloucester, Gloucestershire, GL2 4NB, UK. (3)Farm Animal
Health and Production Group, The Royal Veterinary College, Hawkshead Lane, North 
Mymms, Hatfield, Hertfordshire, AL9 7TA, UK.

BACKGROUND: Bovine hock lesions present a serious welfare and production issue on
dairy farms worldwide. Current theories suggest that trauma is an important
factor in the formation of hock lesions, although infection may also play a role 
in increasing their severity and duration.
HYPOTHESIS: Digital dermatitis (DD) lesions in dairy cows are strongly associated
with specific treponeme bacteria which are opportunistic invaders of other skin
regions. Hock lesions were tested to ascertain if they too contained treponemes.
ANIMALS: Swab and tissue samples were taken from hock lesions from two farms in
South West England.
METHODS: Hock lesions were classified into two categories: open lesions, which
were often bleeding and ulcerated, or were encrusted; and closed lesions, which
were classified as hair loss with no skin breakage. PCR assays and bacterial
isolation were used to detect treponemes in hock lesions.
RESULTS: All three phylogroups of digital dermatitis treponemes were detectable
and isolated from open hock lesions only, with closed lesions showing no evidence
of treponeme infection, either by PCR or bacterial culture. When analysed by 16S 
rRNA gene sequencing, the cultured treponeme DNA showed complete homology or was 
very similar to that found in foot lesions. Additionally, skin swabs from near
the open hock wounds were also positive by PCR assay and isolation for the DD
treponemes.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL IMPORTANCE: Identification of the contribution of these 
infectious agents will allow for more optimal treatments to be developed that
reduce the prevalence and healing times of both hock and DD lesions.

© 2016 ESVD and ACVD.

DOI: 10.1111/vde.12286 
PMID: 26792149  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Curr Biol. 2016 Jan 25;26(2):230-6. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2015.11.060. Epub 2016 Jan
7.

Selective Amplification of the Genome Surrounding Key Placental Genes in
Trophoblast Giant Cells.

Hannibal RL(1), Baker JC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA
94305, USA. (2)Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine,
Stanford, CA 94305, USA. Electronic address: jbaker@stanford.edu.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2016 Feb 22;26(4):R177-9.

While most cells maintain a diploid state, polyploid cells exist in many
organisms and are particularly prevalent within the mammalian placenta [1], where
they can generate more than 900 copies of the genome [2]. Polyploidy is thought
to be an efficient method of increasing the content of the genome by avoiding the
costly and slow process of cytokinesis [1, 3, 4]. Polyploidy can also affect gene
regulation by amplifying a subset of genomic regions required for specific
cellular function [1, 3, 4]. This mechanism is found in the fruit fly Drosophila 
melanogaster, where polyploid ovarian follicle cells amplify genomic regions
containing chorion genes, which facilitate secretion of eggshell proteins [5].
Here, we report that genomic amplification also occurs in mammals at selective
regions of the genome in parietal trophoblast giant cells (p-TGCs) of the mouse
placenta. Using whole-genome sequencing (WGS) and digital droplet PCR (ddPCR) of 
mouse p-TGCs, we identified five amplified regions, each containing a gene family
known to be involved in mammalian placentation: the prolactins (two clusters),
serpins, cathepsins, and the natural killer (NK)/C-type lectin (CLEC) complex
[6-12]. We report here the first description of amplification at selective
genomic regions in mammals and present evidence that this is an important mode of
genome regulation in placental TGCs.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2015.11.060 
PMID: 26774788  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. BMC Genomics. 2016 Jan 14;17:56. doi: 10.1186/s12864-016-2370-6.

Identification of genomic aberrations in hemangioblastoma by droplet digital PCR 
and SNP microarray highlights novel candidate genes and pathways for
pathogenesis.

Mehrian-Shai R(1), Yalon M(2), Moshe I(3), Barshack I(4,)(5), Nass D(6), Jacob
J(7), Dor C(8), Reichardt JK(9), Constantini S(10,)(11), Toren A(12,)(13).

Author information: 
(1)Pediatric Hemato-Oncology, Edmond and Lilly Safra Children's Hospital and
Cancer Research Center, Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer affiliated to the
Sackler School of Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
ruty.shai@sheba.health.gov.il. (2)Pediatric Hemato-Oncology, Edmond and Lilly
Safra Children's Hospital and Cancer Research Center, Sheba Medical Center, Tel
Hashomer affiliated to the Sackler School of Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Tel
Aviv, Israel. michal@droren.co.il. (3)Pediatric Hemato-Oncology, Edmond and Lilly
Safra Children's Hospital and Cancer Research Center, Sheba Medical Center, Tel
Hashomer affiliated to the Sackler School of Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Tel
Aviv, Israel. itaimoshe@gmail.com. (4)Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv
University, Tel Aviv, Israel. Iris.Barshack@sheba.health.gov.il. (5)Institute of 
Pathology, Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer, Israel.
Iris.Barshack@sheba.health.gov.il. (6)Institute of Pathology, Sheba Medical
Center, Tel Hashomer, Israel. Dvora.Nass@sheba.health.gov.il. (7)Pediatric
Hemato-Oncology, Edmond and Lilly Safra Children's Hospital and Cancer Research
Center, Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer affiliated to the Sackler School of
Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
Jasmine.Jacob@sheba.health.gov.il. (8)Pediatric Hemato-Oncology, Edmond and Lilly
Safra Children's Hospital and Cancer Research Center, Sheba Medical Center, Tel
Hashomer affiliated to the Sackler School of Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Tel
Aviv, Israel. Chen.Gefen@sheba.health.gov.il. (9)Division of Tropical Health and 
Medicine, James Cook University, Townsville, QLD, Australia.
Juergen.reichardt@jcu.edu.au. (10)Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv
University, Tel Aviv, Israel. sconsts@netvision.net.il. (11)Department of
Pediatric Neurosurgery, Dana Children's Hospital, Tel-Aviv-Sourasky Medical
Center, Tel-Aviv, Israel. sconsts@netvision.net.il. (12)Pediatric
Hemato-Oncology, Edmond and Lilly Safra Children's Hospital and Cancer Research
Center, Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer affiliated to the Sackler School of
Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel. amost@post.tau.ac.il.
(13)Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
amost@post.tau.ac.il.

BACKGROUND: The genetic mechanisms underlying hemangioblastoma development are
still largely unknown. We used high-resolution single nucleotide polymorphism
microarrays and droplet digital PCR analysis to detect copy number variations
(CNVs) in total of 45 hemangioblastoma tumors.
RESULTS: We identified 94 CNVs with a median of 18 CNVs per sample. The most
frequently gained regions were on chromosomes 1 (p36.32) and 7 (p11.2). These
regions contain the EGFR and PRDM16 genes. Recurrent losses were located at
chromosome 12 (q24.13), which includes the gene PTPN11.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings provide the first high-resolution genome-wide view of
chromosomal changes in hemangioblastoma and identify 23 candidate genes: EGFR,
PRDM16, PTPN11, HOXD11, HOXD13, FLT3, PTCH, FGFR1, FOXP1, GPC3, HOXC13, HOXC11,
MKL1, CHEK2, IRF4, GPHN, IKZF1, RB1, HOXA9, and micro RNA, such as hsa-mir-196a-2
for hemangioblastoma pathogenesis. Furthermore, our data implicate that cell
proliferation and angiogenesis promoting pathways may be involved in the
molecular pathogenesis of hemangioblastoma.

DOI: 10.1186/s12864-016-2370-6 
PMCID: PMC4712606
PMID: 26768750  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Oncologist. 2016 Feb;21(2):156-64. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2015-0288. Epub
2016 Jan 14.

Picoliter-Droplet Digital Polymerase Chain Reaction-Based Analysis of Cell-Free
Plasma DNA to Assess EGFR Mutations in Lung Adenocarcinoma That Confer Resistance
to Tyrosine-Kinase Inhibitors.

Seki Y(1), Fujiwara Y(2), Kohno T(3), Takai E(4), Sunami K(5), Goto Y(5),
Horinouchi H(5), Kanda S(5), Nokihara H(5), Watanabe S(6), Ichikawa H(7),
Yamamoto N(5), Kuwano K(8), Ohe Y(5).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Genome Biology, National Cancer Center Research Institute, Tokyo, 
Japan Division of Respiratory Diseases, Department of Internal Medicine, Jikei
University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. (2)Department of Thoracic Oncology, 
National Cancer Center Hospital, Tokyo, Japan yutakafu@ncc.go.jp. (3)Division of 
Genome Biology, National Cancer Center Research Institute, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Division of Cancer Genomics, National Cancer Center Research Institute, Tokyo,
Japan. (5)Department of Thoracic Oncology, National Cancer Center Hospital,
Tokyo, Japan. (6)Department of Thoracic Surgery, National Cancer Center Hospital,
Tokyo, Japan. (7)Division of Genetics, National Cancer Center Research Institute,
Tokyo, Japan. (8)Division of Respiratory Diseases, Department of Internal
Medicine, Jikei University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: The objective of this study was to evaluate the utility of analyzing
cell-free plasma DNA (cfDNA) by picoliter-droplet digital polymerase chain
reaction (ddPCR) to detect EGFR mutations that confer resistance to
tyrosine-kinase inhibitors (TKIs) used for treatment of lung adenocarcinoma
(LADC).
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Thirty-five LADC patients who received epidermal growth
factor receptor (EGFR)-TKI therapy, including ten who received tumor rebiopsy
after development of resistance, were subjected to picoliter-ddPCR-cfDNA analysis
to determine the fraction of cfDNA with TKI-sensitive (L858R and inflame exon 19 
deletions) and -resistant (i.e., T790M) mutations, as well as their concordance
with mutation status in rebiopsied tumor tissues.
RESULTS: cfDNA samples from 15 (94%) of 16 patients who acquired resistance were 
positive for TKI-sensitive mutations. Also, 7 (44%) were positive for the T790M
mutation, with fractions of T790M (+) cfDNA ranging from 7.4% to 97%. T790M
positivity in cfDNA was consistent in eight of ten patients for whom rebiopsied
tumor tissues were analyzed, whereas the remaining cases were negative in cfDNA
and positive in rebiopsied tumors. Prior to EGFR-TKI therapy, cfDNAs from 9 (38%)
and 0 of 24 patients were positive for TKI-sensitive and T790M mutations,
respectively. Next-generation sequencing of cfDNA from one patient who exhibited 
innate resistance to TKI despite a high fraction of TKI-sensitive mutations and
the absence of the T790M mutation in his cfDNA revealed the presence of the L747P
mutation, a known driver of TKI resistance.
CONCLUSION: Picoliter-ddPCR examination of cfDNA, supported by next-generation
sequencing analysis, enables noninvasive assessment of EGFR mutations that confer
resistance to TKIs.
IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: Noninvasive monitoring of the predominance of tumors
harboring the secondary T790M mutation in the activating mutation in EGFR gene is
necessary for precise and effective treatment of lung adenocarcinoma. Because
cells harboring the T790M mutation are resistant to epidermal growth factor
receptor-tyrosine-kinase inhibitors (TKIs), the predominance of tumor cells
harboring the T790M mutations influences the choice of whether to use
conventional or next-generation TKIs. Digital polymerase chain reaction-based
examination of cfDNA is a promising method; however, its feasibility, including
its consistency with examination of rebiopsied tumor tissue, has not been fully
proven. Here, picoliter-droplet digital polymerase chain reaction technology is
presented as a candidate method for testing cfDNA and assessing the predominance 
of T790M-mutant tumors.

©AlphaMed Press.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2015-0288 
PMCID: PMC4746084
PMID: 26768482  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. PLoS One. 2016 Jan 14;11(1):e0146784. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0146784.
eCollection 2016.

Detection of MET Gene Copy Number in Cancer Samples Using the Droplet Digital PCR
Method.

Zhang Y(1), Tang ET(1), Du Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Amgen Biopharmaceutical Research & Development (Shanghai) Co., Ltd, Shanghai, 
China.

PURPOSE: The analysis of MET gene copy number (CN) has been considered to be a
potential biomarker to predict the response to MET-targeted therapies in various 
cancers. However, the current standard methods to determine MET CN are SNP 6.0 in
the genomic DNA of cancer cell lines and fluorescence in situ hybridization
(FISH) in tumor models, respectively, which are costly and require advanced
technical skills and result in relatively subjective judgments. Therefore, we
employed a novel method, droplet digital PCR (ddPCR), to determine the MET gene
copy number with high accuracy and precision.
METHODS: The genomic DNA of cancer cell lines or tumor models were tested and
compared with the MET gene CN and MET/CEN-7 ratio determined by SNP 6.0 and FISH,
respectively.
RESULTS: In cell lines, the linear association of the MET CN detected by ddPCR
and SNP 6.0 is strong (Pearson correlation = 0.867). In tumor models, the MET CN 
detected by ddPCR was significantly different between the MET gene amplification 
and non-amplification groups according to FISH (mean: 15.4 vs 2.1; P = 0.044).
Given that MET gene amplification is defined as MET CN >5.5 by ddPCR, the
concordance rate between ddPCR and FISH was 98.0%, and Cohen's kappa coefficient 
was 0.760 (95% CI, 0.498-1.000; P <0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: The results demonstrated that the ddPCR method has the potential to 
quantify the MET gene copy number with high precision and accuracy as compared
with the results from SNP 6.0 and FISH in cancer cell lines and tumor samples,
respectively.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0146784 
PMCID: PMC4713204
PMID: 26765781  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. J Mol Diagn. 2016 Mar;18(2):190-204. doi: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2015.09.003. Epub 2016
Jan 4.

Quantitative Detection and Resolution of BRAF V600 Status in Colorectal Cancer
Using Droplet Digital PCR and a Novel Wild-Type Negative Assay.

Bidshahri R(1), Attali D(2), Fakhfakh K(1), McNeil K(3), Karsan A(3), Won JR(4), 
Wolber R(5), Bryan J(2), Hughesman C(6), Haynes C(7).

Author information: 
(1)Michael Smith Laboratories, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British
Columbia, Canada. (2)Department of Statistics, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. (3)Department of Genetics and Molecular
Diagnostics, British Columbia Cancer Agency, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(4)Canadian Immunohistochemistry Quality Control Unit, Department of Pathology
and Laboratory Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British
Columbia, Canada. (5)Department of Pathology, Lion's Gate Hospital, North
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. (6)Michael Smith Laboratories, University of
British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Electronic address:
curtish@msl.ubc.ca. (7)Michael Smith Laboratories, University of British
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Electronic address:
israels@chbe.ubc.ca.

A need exists for robust and cost-effective assays to detect a single or small
set of actionable point mutations, or a complete set of clinically informative
mutant alleles. Knowledge of these mutations can be used to alert the clinician
to a rare mutation that might necessitate more aggressive clinical monitoring or 
a personalized course of treatment. An example is BRAF, a (proto)oncogene
susceptible to either common or rare mutations in codon V600 and adjacent codons.
We report a diagnostic technology that leverages the unique capabilities of
droplet digital PCR to achieve not only accurate and sensitive detection of
BRAF(V600E) but also all known somatic point mutations within the BRAF V600
codon. The simple and inexpensive two-well droplet digital PCR assay uses a
chimeric locked nucleic acid/DNA probe against wild-type BRAF and a novel
wild-type-negative screening paradigm. The assay shows complete diagnostic
accuracy when applied to formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumor specimens from
metastatic colorectal cancer patients deficient for Mut L homologue-1.

Copyright © 2016 American Society for Investigative Pathology and the Association
for Molecular Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2015.09.003 
PMID: 26762843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Oncotarget. 2016 Feb 9;7(6):6984-93. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.6874.

Longitudinal monitoring of EGFR mutations in plasma predicts outcomes of NSCLC
patients treated with EGFR TKIs: Korean Lung Cancer Consortium (KLCC-12-02).

Lee JY(1), Qing X(2), Xiumin W(2), Yali B(2), Chi S(3), Bak SH(4), Lee HY(5), Sun
JM(1), Lee SH(1), Ahn JS(1), Cho EK(6), Kim DW(7), Kim HR(8), Min YJ(9), Jung
SH(3), Park K(1), Mao M(2), Ahn MJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Department of Medicine, Samsung Medical
Center, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Translational Bioscience and Diagnostics, WuXi AppTec, Waigaoqiao Free Trade
Zone, Shanghai, China. (3)Department of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, Samsung
Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Radiology, Kangwon National University Hospital, Chuncheon,
Korea. (5)Department of Radiology, Center for Imaging Science, Samsung Medical
Center, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (6)Division of 
Hematology-Oncology, Department of Medicine, Gachon Medical School, Gil Medical
Center, Inchon, Korea. (7)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Department of Internal
Medicine, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea. (8)Division of
Oncology, Department of Medicine, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul,
Korea. (9)Department of Oncology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan
college of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

We hypothesized that plasma-based EGFR mutation analysis for NSCLC may be
feasible for monitoring treatment response to EGFR TKIs and also predict drug
resistance.Clinically relevant mutations including exon 19 deletion (ex19del),
L858R and T790M were analyzed using droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) in longitudinally
collected plasma samples (n = 367) from 81 NSCLC patients treated with EGFR TKI. 
Of a total 58 baseline cell-free DNA (cfDNA) samples available for ddPCR
analysis, 43 (74.1%) had the same mutation in the matched tumors (clinical
sensitivity: 70.8% [17/24] for L858R and 76.5% [26/34] for ex19del). The
concordance rates of plasma with tissue-based results of EGFR mutations were
87.9% for L858R and 86.2% for ex19del. All 40 patients who were detected EGFR
mutations at baseline showed a dramatic decrease of mutant copies (>50%) in
plasma during the first two months after treatment. Median progression-free
survival (PFS) was 10.1 months for patients with undetectable EGFR v 6.3 months
for detectable EGFR mutations in blood after two-month treatment (HR 3.88, 95% CI
1.48-10.19, P = 0.006). We observed emerging resistance with early detection of
T790M as a secondary mutation in 14 (28.6%) of 49 patients. Plasma-based EGFR
mutation analysis using ddPCR can monitor treatment response to EGFR TKIs and can
lead to early detection of EGFR TKIs resistance. Further studies confirming
clinical implications of EGFR mutation in plasma are warranted to guide optimal
therapeutic strategies upon knowledge of treatment response and resistance.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.6874 
PMCID: PMC4872763
PMID: 26755650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. J Mol Diagn. 2016 Mar;18(2):235-43. doi: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2015.10.004. Epub 2016 
Jan 2.

Multiplex Preamplification of Serum DNA to Facilitate Reliable Detection of
Extremely Rare Cancer Mutations in Circulating DNA by Digital PCR.

Jackson JB(1), Choi DS(1), Luketich JD(2), Pennathur A(2), Ståhlberg A(3),
Godfrey TE(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston,
Massachusetts. (2)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, University of Pittsburgh,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. (3)Department of Surgery, Boston University School of
Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts; Department of Pathology, Sahlgrenska Cancer
Center, Institute of Biomedicine, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, 
Gothenberg, Sweden. (4)Department of Surgery, Boston University School of
Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts. Electronic address: godfreyt@bu.edu.

Tumor-specific mutations can be identified in circulating, cell-free DNA in
plasma or serum and may serve as a clinically relevant alternative to biopsy.
Detection of tumor-specific mutations in the plasma, however, is technically
challenging. First, mutant allele fractions are typically low in a large
background of wild-type circulating, cell-free DNA. Second, the amount of
circulating, cell-free DNA acquired from plasma is also low. Even when using
digital PCR (dPCR), rare mutation detection is challenging because there is not
enough circulating, cell-free DNA to run technical replicates and assay or
instrument noise does not easily allow for mutation detection <0.1%. This study
was undertaken to improve on the robustness of dPCR for mutation detection. A
multiplexed, preamplification step using a high-fidelity polymerase before dPCR
was developed to increase total DNA and the number of targets and technical
replicates that can be assayed from a single sample. We were able to detect
multiple cancer-relevant mutations within tumor-derived samples down to 0.01%.
Importantly, the signal/noise ratio was improved for all preamplified targets,
allowing for easier discrimination of low-abundance mutations against
false-positive signal. Furthermore, we used this protocol on clinical samples to 
detect known, tumor-specific mutations in patient sera. This study provides a
protocol for robust, sensitive detection of circulating tumor DNA for future
clinical applications.

Copyright © 2016 American Society for Investigative Pathology and the Association
for Molecular Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2015.10.004 
PMCID: PMC4851734 [Available on 2017-03-01]
PMID: 26752305  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


541. Anal Chem. 2016 Feb 16;88(4):2132-9. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.5b03692. Epub 2016
Jan 25.

Evaluating Digital PCR for the Quantification of Human Genomic DNA: Accessible
Amplifiable Targets.

Kline MC(1), Romsos EL(1), Duewer DL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Materials Measurement Laboratory, National Institute of Standards and
Technology , Gaithersburg, Maryland 20899-8390, United States.

Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) multiplexed assays perform best when the input
quantity of template DNA is controlled to within about a factor of √2. To help
ensure that PCR assays yield consistent results over time and place, results from
methods used to determine DNA quantity need to be metrologically traceable to a
common reference. Many DNA quantitation systems can be accurately calibrated with
solutions of DNA in aqueous buffer. Since they do not require external
calibration, end-point limiting dilution technologies, collectively termed
"digital PCR (dPCR)", have been proposed as suitable for value assigning such DNA
calibrants. The performance characteristics of several commercially available
dPCR systems have recently been documented using plasmid, viral, or fragmented
genomic DNA; dPCR performance with more complex materials, such as human genomic 
DNA, has been less studied. With the goal of providing a human genomic reference 
material traceably certified for mass concentration, we are investigating the
measurement characteristics of several dPCR systems. We here report results of
measurements from multiple PCR assays, on four human genomic DNAs treated with
four endonuclease restriction enzymes using both chamber and droplet dPCR
platforms. We conclude that dPCR does not estimate the absolute number of PCR
targets in a given volume but rather the number of accessible and amplifiable
targets. While enzymatic restriction of human genomic DNA increases accessibility
for some assays, in well-optimized PCR assays it can reduce the number of
amplifiable targets and increase assay variability relative to uncut sample.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.5b03692 
PMCID: PMC5108050
PMID: 26751276  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Vet Rec. 2016 Jan 16;178(3):71. doi: 10.1136/vr.103167. Epub 2016 Jan 7.

Bovine ischaemic teat necrosis: a further potential role for digital dermatitis
treponemes.

Clegg SR(1), Carter SD(1), Stewart JP(1), Amin DM(1), Blowey RW(2), Evans NJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infection Biology, Institute of Infection and Global Health,
School of Veterinary Science, University of Liverpool, Liverpool Science Park
ic2, 146 Brownlow Hill, Liverpool L3 5RF, UK. (2)University of Liverpool & Wood
Veterinary Group, Gloucester, Gloucestershire GL2 4NB, UK.

A recent outbreak of ischaemic teat necrosis (ITN) on mainland UK has resulted in
large economic losses for dairy farmers. Typical cases start as an area of dry,
thickened and encrusted skin on the medial aspect of the base of the teat, where 
the teat joins the udder, often with a fetid odour. The erosion spreads down the 
teat, often causing intense irritation, which in turn leads to more severely
affected animals removing the entire teat. Due to the severity of ITN and the
substantial economic costs to the industry, analyses were undertaken to ascertain
if an infectious agent might be involved in the pathology. The study has
considered a role for digital dermatitis (DD) treponemes in the aetiopathogenesis
of ITN because, as well as being the prime bacteria associated with infectious
lameness, they have been associated with a number of emerging skin diseases of
cattle, including udder lesions. A high association between presence of
DD-associated treponemes and incidence of ITN (19/22), compared with absence in
the control population is reported. Furthermore, sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene 
of treponeme isolates supports the hypothesis that the identified treponemes are 
similar or identical to those isolated from classical foot DD lesions in cattle
(and sheep). Further studies are required to allow effective targeted prevention 
measures and/or treatments to be developed.

British Veterinary Association.

DOI: 10.1136/vr.103167 
PMID: 26743503  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Chemosphere. 2016 Mar;146:478-85. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2015.12.032. Epub
2015 Dec 30.

Effects of phoxim on nutrient metabolism and insulin signaling pathway in
silkworm midgut.

Li F(1), Hu J(1), Tian J(1), Xu K(1), Ni M(1), Wang B(1), Shen W(2), Li B(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Basic Medicine and Biological Sciences, Soochow University, Suzhou, 
Jiangsu 215123, PR China. (2)School of Basic Medicine and Biological Sciences,
Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu 215123, PR China; National Engineering
Laboratory for Modern Silk, Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu 215123, PR China.
(3)School of Basic Medicine and Biological Sciences, Soochow University, Suzhou, 
Jiangsu 215123, PR China; National Engineering Laboratory for Modern Silk,
Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu 215123, PR China. Electronic address:
lib@suda.edu.cn.

Silkworm (Bombyx mori) is an important economic insect. Each year, poisoning
caused by phoxim pesticide leads to huge economic losses in sericulture in China.
Silkworm midgut is the major organ for food digestion and nutrient absorption. In
this study, we found that the activity and expression of nutrition
metabolism-related enzymes were dysregulated in midgut by phoxim exposure. DGE
analysis revealed that 40 nutrition metabolism-related genes were differentially 
expressed. qRT-PCR results indicated that the expression levels of
insulin/insulin growth factor signaling (IIS) pathway genes Akt, PI3K, PI3K60,
PI3K110, IRS and PDK were reduced, whereas PTEN's expression was significantly
increased in the midgut at 24 h after phoxim treatment. However, the
transcription levels of Akt, PI3K60, PI3K110, IRS, InR and PDK were elevated and 
reached the peaks at 48 h, which were 1.48-, 1.35-, 1.21-, 2.24-, 2.89-, and
1.44-fold of those of the control, respectively. At 72 h, the transcription of
these genes was reduced. Akt phosphorylation level was increasing along with the 
growth of silkworms in the control group. However, phoxim treatment led to
increased Akt phosphorylation that surged at 24 h but gradually decreased at 48 h
and 72 h. The results indicated that phoxim dysregulated the expression of IIS
pathway genes and induced abnormal nutrient metabolism in silkworm midgut, which 
may be the reason of the slow growth of silkworms.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2015.12.032 
PMID: 26741554  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Conf Proc IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2015;2015:5151-4. doi:
10.1109/EMBC.2015.7319551.

FPGA implementation of principal component regression (PCR) for real-time
differentiation of dopamine from interferents.

Bozorgzadeh B, Covey DP, Garris PA, Mohseni P.

This paper reports on field-programmable gate array (FPGA) implementation of a
digital signal processing (DSP) unit for real-time processing of neurochemical
data obtained by fast-scan cyclic voltammetry (FSCV) at a carbonfiber
microelectrode (CFM). The DSP unit comprises a decimation filter and two embedded
processors to process the FSCV data obtained by an oversampling recording
front-end and differentiate the target analyte from interferents in real time
with a chemometrics algorithm using principal component regression (PCR).
Interfaced with an integrated, FSCV-sensing front-end, the DSP unit successfully 
resolves the dopamine response from that of pH change and background-current
drift, two common dopamine interferents, in flow injection analysis involving
bolus injection of mixed solutions, as well as in biological tests involving
electrically evoked, transient dopamine release in the forebrain of an
anesthetized rat.

DOI: 10.1109/EMBC.2015.7319551 
PMID: 26737451  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Immun Ageing. 2016 Jan 5;13:1. doi: 10.1186/s12979-015-0056-6. eCollection 2016.

Cytomegalovirus viral load within blood increases markedly in healthy people over
the age of 70 years.

Parry HM(1), Zuo J(1), Frumento G(1), Mirajkar N(2), Inman C(1), Edwards E(3),
Griffiths M(4), Pratt G(1), Moss P(5).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Immunology and Immunotherapy, University of Birmingham, Vincent
Drive, Birmingham, B152TT UK. (2)University of Birmingham Medical and Dental
School, Vincent Drive, Birmingham, B15 2TT UK. (3)Institute of Immunology and
Immunotherapy, University of Birmingham, Vincent Drive, Birmingham, B152TT UK ;
Charles Darwin Building, Henwick Grove, University of Worcester, Worcester, WR2
6AJ UK. (4)West Midlands Regional Genetics Laboratories, Birmingham Women's NHS
Foundation Trust, Mindelsohn Way, Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15 2TG UK. (5)Institute
of Immunology and Immunotherapy, University of Birmingham, Vincent Drive,
Birmingham, B152TT UK ; University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Birmingham,
UK.

BACKGROUND: Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a highly prevalent herpesvirus, which
maintains lifelong latency and places a significant burden on host immunity.
Infection is associated with increased rates of vascular disease and overall
mortality in the elderly and there is an urgent need for improved understanding
of the viral-host balance during ageing. CMV is extremely difficult to detect in 
healthy donors, however, using droplet digital PCR of DNA from peripheral blood
monocytes, we obtained an absolute quantification of viral load in 44 healthy
donors across a range of ages.
RESULTS: Viral DNA was detected in 24 % (9/37) of donors below the age of 70 but 
was found in all individuals above this age. Furthermore, the mean CMV load was
only 8.6 copies per 10,000 monocytes until approximately 70 years of age when it 
increased by almost 30 fold to 249 copies in older individuals (p < 0.0001). CMV 
was found within classical CD14+ monocytes and was not detectable within the
CD14-CD16+ subset. The titre of CMV-specific IgG increased inexorably with age
indicating that loss of humoral immunity is not a determinant of the increased
viral load. In contrast, although cellular immunity to the structural late
protein pp65 increased with age, the T cell response to the immediate early
protein IE1 decreased in older donors.
CONCLUSION: These data reveal that effective control of CMV is impaired during
healthy ageing, most probably due to loss of cellular control of early viral
reactivation. This information will be of value in guiding efforts to reduce
CMV-associated health complications in the elderly.

DOI: 10.1186/s12979-015-0056-6 
PMCID: PMC4700608
PMID: 26734066 


546. PLoS One. 2016 Jan 5;11(1):e0145774. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0145774.
eCollection 2016.

A Genome Wide Study of Copy Number Variation Associated with Nasopharyngeal
Carcinoma in Malaysian Chinese Identifies CNVs at 11q14.3 and 6p21.3 as Candidate
Loci.

Low JS(1,)(2), Chin YM(1,)(2), Mushiroda T(3), Kubo M(4), Govindasamy GK(5), Pua 
KC(6), Yap YY(7), Yap LF(8), Subramaniam SK(9), Ong CA(10), Tan TY(11), Khoo
AS(12); Malaysian NPC Study Group, Ng CC(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Science, University of Malaya,
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. (2)Translational Genomics Lab, High Impact Research
Building (Level 2), University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. (3)Laboratory
for Pharmacogenetics, RIKEN Center for Integrative Medical Sciences, Yokohama,
Japan. (4)Laboratory for Genotyping Development, RIKEN Center for Integrative
Medical Sciences, Yokohama, Japan. (5)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Faculty 
of Medicine, University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. (6)Department of
Otorhinolaryngology, Hospital Pulau Pinang, Penang, Malaysia. (7)Department of
Surgery, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia,
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. (8)Department of Oral Biology & Biomedical Sciences and
Oral Cancer Research & Coordinating Centre, Faculty of Dentistry, University of
Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. (9)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and
Neck Surgery, Sarawak General Hospital, Sarawak, Malaysia. (10)ENT Department,
Hospital Queen Elizabeth, Karung Berkunci No. 2029, Kota Kinabalu, Sabah,
Malaysia. (11)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Sarawak General Hospital,
Kuching, Sarawak, Malaysia. (12)Molecular Pathology Unit, Cancer Research Centre,
Institute for Medical Research, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

BACKGROUND: Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a neoplasm of the epithelial lining
of the nasopharynx. Despite various reports linking genomic variants to NPC
predisposition, very few reports were done on copy number variations (CNV). CNV
is an inherent structural variation that has been found to be involved in cancer 
predisposition.
METHODS: A discovery cohort of Malaysian Chinese descent (NPC patients, n = 140; 
Healthy controls, n = 256) were genotyped using Illumina® HumanOmniExpress
BeadChip. PennCNV and cnvPartition calling algorithms were applied for CNV
calling. Taqman CNV assays and digital PCR were used to validate CNV calls and
replicate candidate copy number variant region (CNVR) associations in a follow-up
Malaysian Chinese (NPC cases, n = 465; and Healthy controls, n = 677) and Malay
cohort (NPC cases, n = 114; Healthy controls, n = 124).
RESULTS: Six putative CNVRs overlapping GRM5, MICA/HCP5/HCG26, LILRB3/LILRA6,
DPY19L2, RNase3/RNase2 and GOLPH3 genes were jointly identified by PennCNV and
cnvPartition. CNVs overlapping GRM5 and MICA/HCP5/HCG26 were subjected to further
validation by Taqman CNV assays and digital PCR. Combined analysis in Malaysian
Chinese cohort revealed a strong association at CNVR on chromosome 11q14.3
(Pcombined = 1.54x10-5; odds ratio (OR) = 7.27; 95% CI = 2.96-17.88) overlapping 
GRM5 and a suggestive association at CNVR on chromosome 6p21.3 (Pcombined =
1.29x10-3; OR = 4.21; 95% CI = 1.75-10.11) overlapping MICA/HCP5/HCG26 genes.
CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrated the association of CNVs towards NPC
susceptibility, implicating a possible role of CNVs in NPC development.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0145774 
PMCID: PMC4701378
PMID: 26730743  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Clin Rheumatol. 2016 Aug;35(8):1917-22. doi: 10.1007/s10067-015-3156-y. Epub 2016
Jan 4.

Characterization of copy number variants for CCL3L1 gene in rheumatoid arthritis 
for French trio families and Tunisian cases and controls.

Ben Kilani MS(1), Achour Y(2), Perea J(1), Cornelis F(3), Bardin T(4), Chaudru
V(1), Maalej A(2), Petit-Teixeira E(5).

Author information: 
(1)GenHotel-EA3886, Evry University, 2 rue Gaston Cremieux, 91057, Evry-cedex,
France. (2)Laboratory of Human Molecular Genetics, Sfax's Faculty of Medicine,
Avenue Majida Boulila, 3029, Sfax, Tunisie. (3)Genetic Department, CHU Clermont
Ferrand, GenHotel-Auvergne, EA4679, Auvergne University, 63000, Clermont Ferrand,
France. (4)Rheumatology Federation, Lariboisiere Hospital, AP-HP, 75010, Paris,
France. (5)GenHotel-EA3886, Evry University, 2 rue Gaston Cremieux, 91057,
Evry-cedex, France. elisabeth.teixeira@univ-evry.fr.

Analyses of copy number variants (CNVs) for candidate genes in complex diseases
are currently a promising research field. CNVs of C-C chemokine ligand 3-like 1
(CCL3L1) gene are candidate genomic factors in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). We
investigated CCL3L1 CNVs association with a case-control study in Tunisians and a
transmission analysis in French trio families. Relative copy number (rCN) of
CCL3L1 gene was quantified by droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) in 100 French trio
families (RA patients and their two parents) and in 166 RA cases and 102 healthy 
controls from Tunisia. We calculated odds ratio (OR) to investigate association
risk for CCL3L1 CNVs in RA. rCN identified varied from 0 to 4 in the French
population and from 0 to 7 in the Tunisian population. A significant difference
was observed in the distribution of these rCNs between the two populations
(p = 2.34 × 10(-10)), as when rCN from French and Tunisian RA patients were
compared (p = 2.83 × 10(-5)). CNVs transmission in French RA trios allowed the
characterization of genotypes with the presence of tandem duplication and
triplication on the same chromosome. RA association tests highlighted a
protective effect of rCN = 5 for CCL3L1 gene in the Tunisian population
(OR = 0.056; CI 95 % [0.01-0.46]). Characterization of CCL3L1 CNVs with ddPCR
methodology highlighted specific CN genotypes in a French family sample. A copy
number polymorphism of a RA candidate gene was quantified, and its significant
association with RA was revealed in a Tunisian sample.

DOI: 10.1007/s10067-015-3156-y 
PMID: 26728148  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. PLoS One. 2016 Jan 4;11(1):e0146275. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0146275.
eCollection 2016.

Individualized Mutation Detection in Circulating Tumor DNA for Monitoring
Colorectal Tumor Burden Using a Cancer-Associated Gene Sequencing Panel.

Sato KA(1,)(2), Hachiya T(3), Iwaya T(2), Kume K(1,)(2,)(4,)(5), Matsuo T(2),
Kawasaki K(6), Abiko Y(6), Akasaka R(6), Matsumoto T(6), Otsuka K(2), Nishizuka
SS(1,)(2,)(4,)(5,)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Therapeutics Laboratory, Department of Surgery, Iwate Medical
University School of Medicine, Morioka, Japan. (2)Department of Surgery, Iwate
medical University School of Medicine, Morioka, Japan. (3)Division of Biomedical 
Information Analysis, Iwate Tohoku Medical Megabank Organization, Iwate Medical
University, Yahaba, Japan. (4)MIAST (Medical Innovation by Advanced Science and
Technology) Project, Iwate Medical University School, Morioka, Japan.
(5)Institute of Biomedical Science, Iwate Medical University, Yahaba, Japan.
(6)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Iwate Medical University School of Medicine, Morioka, Japan. (7)Department of
Surgery, Iwate Medical University School of Dentistry, Morioka, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) carries information on tumor burden.
However, the mutation spectrum is different among tumors. This study was designed
to examine the utility of ctDNA for monitoring tumor burden based on an
individual mutation profile.
METHODOLOGY: DNA was extracted from a total of 176 samples, including pre- and
post-operational plasma, primary tumors, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells
(PBMC), from 44 individuals with colorectal tumor who underwent curative
resection of colorectal tumors, as well as nine healthy individuals. Using a
panel of 50 cancer-associated genes, tumor-unique mutations were identified by
comparing the single nucleotide variants (SNVs) from tumors and PBMCs with an Ion
PGM sequencer. A group of the tumor-unique mutations from individual tumors were 
designated as individual marker mutations (MMs) to trace tumor burden by ctDNA
using droplet digital PCR (ddPCR). From these experiments, three major objectives
were assessed: (a) Tumor-unique mutations; (b) mutation spectrum of a tumor; and 
(c) changes in allele frequency of the MMs in ctDNA after curative resection of
the tumor.
RESULTS: A total of 128 gene point mutations were identified in 27 colorectal
tumors. Twenty-six genes were mutated in at least 1 sample, while 14 genes were
found to be mutated in only 1 sample, respectively. An average of 2.7 genes were 
mutated per tumor. Subsequently, 24 MMs were selected from SNVs for tumor burden 
monitoring. Among the MMs found by ddPCR with > 0.1% variant allele frequency in 
plasma DNA, 100% (8 out of 8) exhibited a decrease in post-operation ctDNA,
whereas none of the 16 MMs found by ddPCR with < 0.1% variant allele frequency in
plasma DNA showed a decrease.
CONCLUSIONS: This panel of 50 cancer-associated genes appeared to be sufficient
to identify individual, tumor-unique, mutated ctDNA markers in cancer patients.
The MMs showed the clinical utility in monitoring curatively-treated colorectal
tumor burden if the allele frequency of MMs in plasma DNA is above 0.1%.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0146275 
PMCID: PMC4699643
PMID: 26727500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Pediatr Res. 2016 May;79(5):766-75. doi: 10.1038/pr.2015.277. Epub 2015 Dec 31.

The transcriptome of nitrofen-induced pulmonary hypoplasia in the rat model of
congenital diaphragmatic hernia.

Mahood TH(1), Johar DR(1,)(2), Iwasiow BM(1,)(3), Xu W(4,)(5), Keijzer R(1,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pathophysiology, University of Manitoba and
Children's Hospital Research Institute of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.
(2)Ain Shams University Faculty of Women for Arts, Sciences and Education, Cairo,
Egypt. (3)Department of Surgery, Paediatrics & Child Health, University of
Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. (4)Department of Biochemistry and Medical
Genetics, Faculty of Medicine, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba,
Canada. (5)Next Generation Sequencing Platform, Children's Hospital Research
Institute of Manitoba and Manitoba Institute of Cell Biology, University of
Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.

BACKGROUND: We currently do not know how the herbicide nitrofen induces lung
hypoplasia and congenital diaphragmatic hernia in rats. Our aim was to compare
the differentially expressed transcriptome of nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lungs 
to control lungs in embryonic day 13 rat embryos before the development of
embryonic diaphragmatic defects.
METHODS: Using next-generation sequencing technology, we identified the
expression profile of microRNA (miRNA) and mRNA genes. Once the dataset was
validated by both RT-qPCR and digital-PCR, we conducted gene ontology, miRNA
target analysis, and orthologous miRNA sequence matching for the deregulated
miRNAs in silico.
RESULTS: Our study identified 186 known mRNA and 100 miRNAs which were
differentially expressed in nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lungs. Sixty-four rat
miRNAs homologous to known human miRNAs were identified. A subset of these genes 
may promote lung hypoplasia in rat and/or human, and we discuss their
associations. Potential miRNA pathways relevant to nitrofen-induced lung
hypoplasia include PI3K, TGF-β, and cell cycle kinases.
CONCLUSION: Nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lungs have an abnormal transcriptome
that may lead to impaired development.

DOI: 10.1038/pr.2015.277 
PMID: 26720608 


550. Reprod Fertil Dev. 2016 Jan;29(1):110. doi: 10.1071/RDv29n1Ab5.

5 TESTICULAR GnRH-II RECEPTOR KNOCKDOWN IMPAIRS DIURNAL TESTOSTERONE SECRETION IN
THE BOAR.

Desaulniers AT(1), Cederberg RA(1), Lents CA(2), White BR(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, NE, USA. (2)USDA, ARS, USMARC, Clay
Center, NE, USA.

The second mammalian GnRH isoform (GnRH-II) and its specific receptor (GnRHR-II) 
are ubiquitously expressed, with elevated levels in the testis. Gene coding
errors prevent their production in many species, but both genes are functional in
swine. We demonstrated that GnRHR-II localizes to porcine Leydig cells, and
exogenous GnRH-II robustly stimulates testosterone production in vivo, despite
minimal luteinizing hormone (LH) secretion. These data suggest that GnRH-II
directly effects steroidogenesis in the boar testis. To explore this hypothesis, 
we produced a GnRHR-II knockdown (KD) swine line. Upon characterisation of this
line, serum testosterone concentrations were reduced in GnRHR-II KD compared with
littermate control males during pubertal development. However, concentrations of 
LH were unaffected, indicating that GnRHR-II KD impairs steroidogenesis directly 
at the testis rather than inhibiting gonadotropin secretion from the anterior
pituitary gland. Based on these results, the objective of this study was to
compare diurnal secretory patterns of testosterone in mature GnRHR-II KD (n=5)
and littermate control (n=5) males. Boars were fit with indwelling jugular
cannulae and blood was collected every 15min for 8h. Serum was assayed for
testosterone concentration via radioimmunoassay. Next, GnRHR-II KD (n=5) and
littermate control (n=4) boars were killed, testis weight was recorded, and
testicular tissue was collected for RNA isolation. To confirm KD in these
animals, digital droplet PCR was performed to quantify GnRHR-II mRNA abundance
(normalized to β-actin). Data were analysed using the MIXED procedure of SAS (SAS
Institute Inc., Cary, NC, USA) with line (transgenic or control) as the fixed
effect and litter as a random effect. For hormone data, time and line×time
interaction were included as fixed effects, with time as a repeated measure.
Although there was no effect of time or line×time interaction (P>0.05) on serum
testosterone concentrations, we observed a line effect (P<0.05). Differences
between lines were dramatic; testosterone was reduced by 82% in GnRHR-II KD
(0.75±0.05ngmL(-1)) compared with littermate control (4.09±0.29ngmL(-1); P<0.05) 
males. Despite divergent testosterone levels, testis weights were similar between
lines (P>0.05) indicative of altered Leydig cell function as opposed to
hypertrophy/hyperplasia. Given that testicular GnRHR-II mRNA levels were reduced 
by 69% in transgenic animals (P<0.001), these data demonstrate that GnRH-II and
its receptor play a critical role in testosterone biosynthesis within porcine
Leydig cells. Thus, this report reveals novel mediators of testicular function in
the boar and challenges the central dogma of testosterone regulation. Because
testosterone dictates male reproductive success, GnRH-II and its receptor
represent unique targets to improve fertility in swine.

DOI: 10.1071/RDv29n1Ab5 
PMID: 28278802 


551. PLoS One. 2015 Dec 30;10(12):e0145754. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0145754.
eCollection 2015.

Personalized Circulating Tumor DNA Biomarkers Dynamically Predict Treatment
Response and Survival In Gynecologic Cancers.

Pereira E(1), Camacho-Vanegas O(2), Anand S(2), Sebra R(2), Catalina Camacho
S(2), Garnar-Wortzel L(2), Nair N(1), Moshier E(3), Wooten M(2), Uzilov A(2),
Chen R(2), Prasad-Hayes M(1), Zakashansky K(1), Beddoe AM(1), Schadt E(2),
Dottino P(1,)(2), Martignetti JA(1,)(2,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology and Reproductive Sciences, Icahn School
of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, United States of America. (2)Department
of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New
York, NY, United States of America. (3)Department of Biostatistics, Icahn School 
of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, United States of America. (4)Department
of Oncological Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY,
United States of America.

BACKGROUND: High-grade serous ovarian and endometrial cancers are the most lethal
female reproductive tract malignancies worldwide. In part, failure to treat these
two aggressive cancers successfully centers on the fact that while the majority
of patients are diagnosed based on current surveillance strategies as having a
complete clinical response to their primary therapy, nearly half will develop
disease recurrence within 18 months and the majority will die from disease
recurrence within 5 years. Moreover, no currently used biomarkers or imaging
studies can predict outcome following initial treatment. Circulating tumor DNA
(ctDNA) represents a theoretically powerful biomarker for detecting otherwise
occult disease. We therefore explored the use of personalized ctDNA markers as
both a surveillance and prognostic biomarker in gynecologic cancers and compared 
this to current FDA-approved surveillance tools.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Tumor and serum samples were collected at time of surgery
and then throughout treatment course for 44 patients with gynecologic cancers,
representing 22 ovarian cancer cases, 17 uterine cancer cases, one peritoneal,
three fallopian tube, and one patient with synchronous fallopian tube and uterine
cancer. Patient/tumor-specific mutations were identified using whole-exome and
targeted gene sequencing and ctDNA levels quantified using droplet digital PCR.
CtDNA was detected in 93.8% of patients for whom probes were designed and levels 
were highly correlated with CA-125 serum and computed tomography (CT) scanning
results. In six patients, ctDNA detected the presence of cancer even when CT
scanning was negative and, on average, had a predictive lead time of seven months
over CT imaging. Most notably, undetectable levels of ctDNA at six months
following initial treatment was associated with markedly improved progression
free and overall survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Detection of residual disease in gynecologic, and indeed all
cancers, represents a diagnostic dilemma and a potential critical inflection
point in precision medicine. This study suggests that the use of personalized
ctDNA biomarkers in gynecologic cancers can identify the presence of residual
tumor while also more dynamically predicting response to treatment relative to
currently used serum and imaging studies. Of particular interest, ctDNA was an
independent predictor of survival in patients with ovarian and endometrial
cancers. Earlier recognition of disease persistence and/or recurrence and the
ability to stratify into better and worse outcome groups through ctDNA
surveillance may open the window for improved survival and quality and life in
these cancers.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0145754 
PMCID: PMC4696808
PMID: 26717006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Malar J. 2015 Dec 30;14:526. doi: 10.1186/s12936-015-1060-1.

Computer-vision-based technology for fast, accurate and cost effective diagnosis 
of malaria.

Srivastava B(1), Anvikar AR(2), Ghosh SK(3), Mishra N(4), Kumar N(5), Houri-Yafin
A(6), Pollak JJ(7), Salpeter SJ(8), Valecha N(9).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Malaria Research, Sector 8 Dwarka, New Delhi, 110 077,
India. shbira@gmail.com. (2)National Institute of Malaria Research, Sector 8
Dwarka, New Delhi, 110 077, India. anvikar@rediffmail.com. (3)National Institute 
of Malaria Research Field Unit, Bengaluru, India. ghoshnimr@gmail.com.
(4)National Institute of Malaria Research, Sector 8 Dwarka, New Delhi, 110 077,
India. neelima.nimr@gmail.com. (5)National Institute of Malaria Research, Sector 
8 Dwarka, New Delhi, 110 077, India. navinjh@gmail.com. (6)Sight Diagnostics, 1
Agudat Hasport Hapoel, Jerusalem Technology Park, Jerusalem, Israel.
arnon@sightdx.com. (7)Sight Diagnostics, 1 Agudat Hasport Hapoel, Jerusalem
Technology Park, Jerusalem, Israel. yossi@sightdx.com. (8)Sight Diagnostics, 1
Agudat Hasport Hapoel, Jerusalem Technology Park, Jerusalem, Israel.
seth@sightdx.com. (9)National Institute of Malaria Research, Sector 8 Dwarka, New
Delhi, 110 077, India. neenavalecha@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Microscopy has long been considered to be the gold standard for
diagnosis of malaria despite the introduction of newer assays. However, it has
many challenges like requirement of trained microscopists and logistic issues. A 
vision based device that can diagnose malaria, provide speciation and estimate
parasitaemia was evaluated.
METHODS: The device was evaluated using samples from 431 consented patients, 361 
of which were initially screened by RDT and microscopy and later analysed by PCR.
It was a prospective, non-randomized, blinded trial. Quantification of
parasitaemia was performed by two experienced technicians. Samples were subjected
to diagnosis by Sight Dx digital imaging scanning.
RESULTS: The sensitivity and specificity of the SightDx P1 device for analysed
samples were found to be 97.05 and 96.33%, respectively, when compared to PCR.
When compared to microscopy, sensitivity and specificity were found to be 94.4
and 95.6%, respectively. The device was able to speciate 73.3% of the PCR
Plasmodium falciparum positive samples and 91.4% of PCR Plasmodium vivax positive
samples.
CONCLUSION: The ability of the device to detect parasitaemia as compared with
microscopy, was within 50% in 71.3% of cases and demonstrated a correlation
coefficient of 0.89.

DOI: 10.1186/s12936-015-1060-1 
PMCID: PMC4696165
PMID: 26714633  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Clin Microbiol Infect. 2016 May;22(5):456.e1-6. doi: 10.1016/j.cmi.2015.12.008.
Epub 2015 Dec 20.

Contamination of healthcare workers' mobile phones by epidemic viruses.

Pillet S(1), Berthelot P(2), Gagneux-Brunon A(3), Mory O(4), Gay C(5), Viallon
A(6), Lucht F(3), Pozzetto B(1), Botelho-Nevers E(7).

Author information: 
(1)GIMAP EA 3064 (Groupe Immunité des Muqueuses et Agents Pathogènes), University
of Lyon, Saint-Etienne, France; Laboratory of Infectious Agents and Hygiene,
University Hospital of Saint-Étienne, Saint-Étienne, France. (2)GIMAP EA 3064
(Groupe Immunité des Muqueuses et Agents Pathogènes), University of Lyon,
Saint-Etienne, France; Laboratory of Infectious Agents and Hygiene, University
Hospital of Saint-Étienne, Saint-Étienne, France; Infectious Diseases Department,
University Hospital of Saint-Étienne, Saint-Étienne, France. (3)GIMAP EA 3064
(Groupe Immunité des Muqueuses et Agents Pathogènes), University of Lyon,
Saint-Etienne, France; Infectious Diseases Department, University Hospital of
Saint-Étienne, Saint-Étienne, France. (4)Paediatric Emergency Department,
University Hospital of Saint-Étienne, Saint-Étienne, France. (5)Paediatric
Department, University Hospital of Saint-Étienne, Saint-Étienne, France. (6)Adult
Emergency Department, University Hospital of Saint-Étienne, Saint-Étienne,
France. (7)GIMAP EA 3064 (Groupe Immunité des Muqueuses et Agents Pathogènes),
University of Lyon, Saint-Etienne, France; Infectious Diseases Department,
University Hospital of Saint-Étienne, Saint-Étienne, France. Electronic address: 
elisabeth.botelho-nevers@chu-st-etienne.fr.

Mobile phones (MPs) are potential reservoirs of nosocomial bacteria, but few data
are available concerning viruses. We aimed to evaluate the presence of virus RNA 
from epidemic viruses including metapneumovirus, respiratory syncytial virus,
influenza viruses, rotavirus (RV) and norovirus on the MPs used by healthcare
workers (HCWs) and to relate it to hygiene measures. An anonymous behavioural
questionnaire about MP use at hospital was administered to the HCWs of four adult
and paediatric departments of a university hospital. After sampling personal
(PMP) and/or professional MPs (digital enhanced cordless telephone, DECT), virus 
RNAs were extracted and amplified by one-step real-time reverse
transcription-quantitative PCR. The molecular results were analysed in a masked
manner in relation to the behavioural survey. Questionnaires from 114 HCWs (35
senior physicians, 30 residents, 32 nurses, 27 nurses' assistants) working either
in adult (n = 58) or paediatric (n = 56) departments were analysed. Medical
personnel used their PMP more frequently than paramedical HCWs (33/65 vs. 10/59, 
p <0.001). MPs were used during care more frequently in adult wards than in
paediatric ones (46/58 vs. 27/56, p <0.001). Virus RNA was detected on 42/109
(38.5%) collected MPs, with RV found on 39, respiratory syncytial virus on three 
and metapneumovirus on one. The presence of virus RNA was significantly
associated with MPs from the paediatric HCWs (p <0.001). MPs routinely used in
hospital, even during care, can host virus RNA, especially RV. Promotion of
frequent hand hygiene before and after MP use, along with frequent cleaning of
MPs, should be encouraged.

Copyright © 2015 European Society of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious
Diseases. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmi.2015.12.008 
PMID: 26713553  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2016 Jul;113(7):1542-51. doi: 10.1002/bit.25916. Epub 2016 Mar
16.

Droplet digital PCR-aided screening and characterization of Pichia pastoris
multiple gene copy strains.

Cámara E(1), Albiol J(1), Ferrer P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical, Biological, and Environmental Engineering, Escola
d'Enginyeria, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Bellaterra, 08193, Catalonia,
Spain. (2)Department of Chemical, Biological, and Environmental Engineering,
Escola d'Enginyeria, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Bellaterra, 08193,
Catalonia, Spain. pau.ferrer@uab.cat.

Pichia (syn. Komagataella) pastoris is a widely used yeast platform for
heterologous protein production. Expression cassettes are usually stably
integrated into the genome of this host via homologous recombination. Although
increasing gene dosage is a powerful strategy to improve recombinant protein
production, an excess in the number of gene copies often leads to decreased
product yields and increased metabolic burden, particularly for secreted
proteins. We have constructed a series of strains harboring different copy
numbers of a Rhizopus oryzae lipase gene (ROL), aiming to find the optimum gene
dosage for secreted Rol production. In order to accurately determine ROL gene
dosage, we implemented a novel protocol based on droplet digital PCR (ddPCR), and
cross validated it with conventional real-time PCR. Gene copy number
determination based on ddPCR allowed for an accurate ranking of transformants
according to their ROL gene dosage. Results indicated that ddPCR was particularly
superior at lower gene dosages (one to five copies) over quantitative real-time
PCR (qPCR). This facilitated the determination of the optimal ROL gene dosage as 
low as two copies. The ranking of ROL gene dosage versus Rol yield was consistent
at both small scale and bioreactor chemostat cultures, thereby easing clone
characterization in terms of gene dosage dependent physiological effects, which
could be discriminated even among strains differing by only one ROL copy. A
selected two-copy strain showed twofold increase in Rol specific production in a 
chemostat culture over the single copy strain. Conversely, strains harboring more
than two copies of the ROL gene showed decreased product and biomass yields, as
well as altered substrate consumption specific rates, compared to the reference
(one-copy) strain. Biotechnol. Bioeng. 2016;113: 1542-1551. © 2015 Wiley
Periodicals, Inc.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.25916 
PMID: 26704939 


555. Haematologica. 2016 Apr;101(4):e157-61. doi: 10.3324/haematol.2015.135467. Epub
2015 Dec 24.

Droplet digital polymerase chain reaction for DNMT3A and IDH1/2 mutations to
improve early detection of acute myeloid leukemia relapse after allogeneic
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

Brambati C(1), Galbiati S(2), Xue E(3), Toffalori C(1), Crucitti L(4), Greco
R(4), Sala E(4), Crippa A(5), Chiesa L(1), Soriani N(2), Mazzi B(1), Tresoldi
C(5), Stanghellini MT(4), Peccatori J(4), Carrabba MG(4), Bernardi M(4), Ferrari 
M(2), Lampasona V(2), Ciceri F(6), Vago L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Immunogenetics, Leukemia Genomics and Immunobiology, IRCCS San
Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milano, Italy. (2)Genomics for the Diagnosis of
Human Pathologies Unit, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milano, Italy.
(3)Unit of Immunogenetics, Leukemia Genomics and Immunobiology, IRCCS San
Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milano, Italy. Unit of Hematology and Bone Marrow 
Transplantation, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milano, Italy. (4)Unit 
of Hematology and Bone Marrow Transplantation, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific
Institute, Milano, Italy. (5)Molecular Hematology Laboratory, IRCCS San Raffaele 
Scientific Institute, Milano, Italy. (6)Unit of Hematology and Bone Marrow
Transplantation, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milano, Italy.
ciceri.fabio@hsr.it.

DOI: 10.3324/haematol.2015.135467 
PMCID: PMC5004388
PMID: 26703962  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Oncotarget. 2015 Dec 29;6(42):44927-40. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.6743.

TMSB4Y is a candidate tumor suppressor on the Y chromosome and is deleted in male
breast cancer.

Wong HY(1), Wang GM(1), Croessmann S(1), Zabransky DJ(1), Chu D(1), Garay JP(1), 
Cidado J(1,)(2), Cochran RL(1), Beaver JA(1), Aggarwal A(3,)(4,)(5), Liu
ML(3,)(5), Argani P(1), Meeker A(1), Hurley PJ(1), Lauring J(1), Park BH(1,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, The Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA. (2)Present address: Oncology iMED,
AstraZeneca, Waltham, MA, USA. (3)Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Washington,
DC, USA. (4)The Georgetown University, Washington, DC, USA. (5)George Washington 
University School of Medicine, Washington, DC, USA. (6)The Whiting School of
Engineering, Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, The Johns
Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA.

Male breast cancer comprises less than 1% of breast cancer diagnoses. Although
estrogen exposure has been causally linked to the development of female breast
cancers, the etiology of male breast cancer is unclear. Here, we show via
fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) that
the Y chromosome was clonally lost at a frequency of ~16% (5/31) in two
independent cohorts of male breast cancer patients. We also show somatic loss of 
the Y chromosome gene TMSB4Y in a male breast tumor, confirming prior reports of 
loss at this locus in male breast cancers. To further understand the function of 
TMSB4Y, we created inducible cell lines of TMSB4Y in the female human breast
epithelial cell line MCF-10A. Expression of TMSB4Y resulted in aberrant cellular 
morphology and reduced cell proliferation, with a corresponding reduction in the 
fraction of metaphase cells. We further show that TMSB4Y interacts directly with 
β-actin, the main component of the actin cytoskeleton and a cell cycle modulator.
Taken together, our results suggest that clonal loss of the Y chromosome may
contribute to male breast carcinogenesis, and that the TMSB4Y gene has tumor
suppressor properties.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.6743 
PMCID: PMC4792601
PMID: 26702755  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. New Phytol. 2016 Apr;210(2):551-63. doi: 10.1111/nph.13801. Epub 2015 Dec 24.

Silencing of the gibberellin receptor homolog, CsGID1a, affects locule formation 
in cucumber (Cucumis sativus) fruit.

Liu B(1,)(2), Liu X(1,)(2), Yang S(1,)(2), Chen C(1,)(2), Xue S(1,)(2), Cai
Y(1,)(2), Wang D(1,)(2), Yin S(1,)(2), Gai X(1,)(2), Ren H(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Vegetable Science, College of Agronomy and Biotechnology, China 
Agricultural University, Beijing, 100193, China. (2)Key Laboratory of Growth and 
Developmental Regulation for Protected Vegetable Crops of Beijing, China
Agricultural University, Beijing, 100193, China.

Gibberellins are phytohormones with many roles, including the regulation of fruit
development. However, little is known about the relationship between GA
perception and fleshy fruit ontogeny, and particularly locule formation. We
characterized the expression of cucumber (Cucumis sativus) GA receptor gene
(CsGID1a) using quantitative real-time PCR, in situ hybridization and a
promoter::β-glucuronidase (GUS) assay. CsGID1a-RNAi cucumber fruits were observed
by dissecting microscope, scanning electron microscopy and transmission electron 
microscopy. Finally, genome-wide gene expression in young fruits from a control
and the RNAi line was compared using a digital gene expression (DGE) analysis
approach. The expression pattern of CsGID1a was found to be closely correlated
with fruit locule formation, and silencing CsGID1a in cucumber resulted in fruits
with abnormal carpels and locules. Overexpression of CsGID1a in the Arabidopsis
thaliana double mutant (gid1a gid1c) resulted in 'cucumber locule-like' fruits.
The DGE analysis suggested that expression of genes related to auxin synthesis
and transport, as well as the cell cycle, was altered in CsGID1a-RNAi fruits, a
result that was supported by comparing the auxin content and cellular structures 
of the control and transgenic fruits. This study demonstrates a previously
uncharacterized GA signaling pathway that is essential for cucumber fruit locule 
formation.

© 2015 The Authors. New Phytologist © 2015 New Phytologist Trust.

DOI: 10.1111/nph.13801 
PMID: 26701170  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Clin Cancer Res. 2016 Mar 1;22(5):1034-6. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-2549.
Epub 2015 Dec 23.

ESR1 Mutations in Breast Cancer: Proof-of-Concept Challenges Clinical Action.

Gu G(1), Fuqua SA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Lester and Sue Smith Breast Center, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston,
Texas. (2)Lester and Sue Smith Breast Center, Baylor College of Medicine,
Houston, Texas. Dan L Duncan Cancer Center, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, 
Texas. sfuqua@bcm.edu.

Comment on
    Clin Cancer Res. 2016 Mar 1;22(5):1130-7.

Wang and colleagues demonstrate that digital droplet PCR (ddPCR) identified ESR1 
mutations in 7% of primary breast cancers. ESR1 mutations were also readily
detected in metastatic tissues and circulating tumor DNA in the blood. These
results suggest that ddPCR may be amendable for monitoring tumor burden, and to
predict relapse. See related article by Wang et al., p. 1130.

©2015 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-2549 
PMCID: PMC4775407 [Available on 2017-03-01]
PMID: 26700205  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Photodiagnosis Photodyn Ther. 2016 Mar;13:34-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pdpdt.2015.12.002.
Epub 2015 Dec 9.

Assessing the use of Quantitative Light-induced Fluorescence-Digital as a
clinical plaque assessment.

Han SY(1), Kim BR(2), Ko HY(2), Kwon HK(2), Kim BI(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Preventive Dentistry & Public Oral Health, Brain Korea 21 PLUS
Project, Yonsei University College of Dentistry, Seoul, Republic of Korea;
Department of Dental Hygiene, Yonsei University Wonju College of Medicine, Wonju,
Republic of Korea. (2)Department of Preventive Dentistry & Public Oral Health,
Brain Korea 21 PLUS Project, Yonsei University College of Dentistry, Seoul,
Republic of Korea. (3)Department of Preventive Dentistry & Public Oral Health,
Oral Science Research Center, Brain Korea 21 PLUS Project, Yonsei University
College of Dentistry, Seoul, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:
drkbi@yuhs.ac.

BACKGROUND: The aims of this study were to compare the relationship between red
fluorescent plaque (RF plaque) area by Quantitative Light-induced
Fluorescence-Digital (QLF-D) and disclosed plaque area by two-tone disclosure,
and to assess the bacterial composition of the RF plaque by real time-PCR.
METHODS: Fifty healthy subjects were included and 600 facial surfaces of their
anterior teeth were examined. QLF-D was taken on two separate occasions (before
and after disclosing), and the RF plaque area was calculated based on Plaque
Percent Index (PPI). After disclosing, the stained plaque area was analyzed to
investigate the relationship with the RF plaque area. The relationship was
evaluated using Pearson correlation and paired t-test. Then, the RF and non-red
fluorescent (non-RF) plaque samples were obtained from the same subject for
real-time PCR test. Total 10 plaque samples were compared the ratio of the 6 of
bacteria using Wilcoxon signed rank test.
RESULTS: Regarding the paired t-test, the blue-staining plaque area (9.3±9.2)
showed significantly similarity with the RF plaque area (9.1±14.9, p=0.80) at
ΔR20, however, the red-staining plaque area (31.6±20.9) presented difference from
the RF plaque area (p<0.0001). In addition, bacterial composition of Prevotella
intermedia and Streptococcus anginosus was associated with substantially more the
RF plaque than the non-RF plaque (p<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The plaque assessment method using QLF-D has potential to detect
mature plaque, and the plaque area was associated with the blue-staining area
using two-tone disclosure.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pdpdt.2015.12.002 
PMID: 26691322  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Genet Med. 2016 Jul;18(7):712-9. doi: 10.1038/gim.2015.156. Epub 2015 Dec 17.

VisCap: inference and visualization of germ-line copy-number variants from
targeted clinical sequencing data.

Pugh TJ(1,)(2), Amr SS(3,)(4,)(5), Bowser MJ(3), Gowrisankar S(3), Hynes E(3),
Mahanta LM(3), Rehm HL(3,)(4,)(5), Funke B(3,)(4,)(5), Lebo MS(3,)(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada. (2)Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada. (3)Laboratory for Molecular Medicine, Partners HealthCare
Personalized Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. (4)Department of Pathology,
Brigham and Women's Hospital and Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts, USA. (5)Department of Pathology, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts, USA.

PURPOSE: To develop and validate VisCap, a software program targeted to clinical 
laboratories for inference and visualization of germ-line copy-number variants
(CNVs) from targeted next-generation sequencing data.
METHODS: VisCap calculates the fraction of overall sequence coverage assigned to 
genomic intervals and computes log2 ratios of these values to the median of
reference samples profiled using the same test configuration. Candidate CNVs are 
called when log2 ratios exceed user-defined thresholds.
RESULTS: We optimized VisCap using 14 cases with known CNVs, followed by
prospective analysis of 1,104 cases referred for diagnostic DNA sequencing. To
verify calls in the prospective cohort, we used droplet digital polymerase chain 
reaction (PCR) to confirm 10/27 candidate CNVs and 72/72 copy-neutral genomic
regions scored by VisCap. We also used a genome-wide bead array to confirm the
absence of CNV calls across panels applied to 10 cases. To improve specificity,
we instituted a visual scoring system that enabled experienced reviewers to
differentiate true-positive from false-positive calls with minimal impact on
laboratory workflow.
CONCLUSIONS: VisCap is a sensitive method for inferring CNVs from targeted
sequence data from targeted gene panels. Visual scoring of data underlying CNV
calls is a critical step to reduce false-positive calls for follow-up
testing.Genet Med 18 7, 712-719.Genetics in Medicine (2016); 18 7, 712-719.
doi:10.1038/gim.2015.156.

DOI: 10.1038/gim.2015.156 
PMCID: PMC4940431
PMID: 26681316 


561. Food Microbiol. 2016 Feb;53(Pt B):135-49. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2015.09.003. Epub
2015 Sep 4.

The challenge of enumerating Listeria monocytogenes in food.

Auvolat A(1), Besse NG(2).

Author information: 
(1)French Agency for Food, Environmental and Occupational Health & Safety
(ANSES), Laboratory for Food Safety, ANSES, Laboratoire de Sécurité des Aliments,
14 Rue Pierre et Marie Curie, 94701 Maisons Alfort, France. (2)French Agency for 
Food, Environmental and Occupational Health & Safety (ANSES), Laboratory for Food
Safety, ANSES, Laboratoire de Sécurité des Aliments, 14 Rue Pierre et Marie
Curie, 94701 Maisons Alfort, France. Electronic address:
nathalie.gnanou-besse@anses.fr.

Listeria monocytogenes is recognised as a serious foodborne pathogen in humans.
However, food products are usually contaminated at low levels (i.e. <100 CFU/g)
and there is still no adequate enumeration method for testing food. Much research
has been carried out to improve Listeria enumeration methods, leading to several 
proposed alternative methods such as the most probable number technique,
molecular-based methods and bacterial cell concentration techniques. Here, we
catalogue the current knowledge concerning L. monocytogenes enumeration, with a
particular focus on the problem of enumerating low level contamination.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2015.09.003 
PMID: 26678141  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. J Virol. 2015 Dec 16;90(6):2718-28. doi: 10.1128/JVI.02883-15.

Peripheral T Follicular Helper Cells Are the Major HIV Reservoir within Central
Memory CD4 T Cells in Peripheral Blood from Chronically HIV-Infected Individuals 
on Combination Antiretroviral Therapy.

Pallikkuth S(1), Sharkey M(2), Babic DZ(2), Gupta S(1), Stone GW(1), Fischl
MA(2), Stevenson M(2), Pahwa S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Miami Miller School
of Medicine, Miami, Florida, USA Miami Center For AIDS Research, Miami, Florida, 
USA. (2)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, University of
Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida, USA Miami Center For AIDS
Research, Miami, Florida, USA. (3)Department of Microbiology and Immunology,
University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida, USA Miami Center
For AIDS Research, Miami, Florida, USA spahwa@med.miami.edu.

In this study, we examined the peripheral blood (PB) central memory (TCM) CD4(+) 
T cell subsets designated peripheral T follicular helper cells (pTfh cells) and
non-pTfh cells to assess HIV permissiveness and persistence. Purified pTfh and
non-pTfh cells from healthy HIV-negative donors were tested for HIV
permissiveness using green fluorescent protein (GFP)-expressing HIV-1NL4-3/Ba-L, 
followed by viral reactivation using beads coated with anti-CD3/anti-CD28
monoclonal antibodies. The role of pTfh cells in HIV persistence was analyzed in 
12 chronically HIV-1 infected patients before and 48 weeks after initiation of
raltegravir-containing combination antiretroviral therapy (cART). Total cellular 
HIV-1 DNA and episomes containing two copies of the viral long terminal repeat
(2LTR circles) were analyzed in using droplet digital PCR in the purified pTfh
and non-pTfh cells. Activation-inducible HIV p24 expression was determined by
flow cytometry. Results indicate that pTfh cells, in particular PD1(+) pTfh
cells, showed greater permissiveness for HIV infection than non-pTfh cells. At
week 48 on cART, HIV DNA levels were unchanged from pre-cART levels, although a
significant decrease in 2LTR circles was observed in both cell subsets. Inducible
HIV p24 expression was higher in pTfh cells than in non-pTfh cells, with the
highest frequencies in the PD1(+) CXCR3(-) pTfh cell subset. Frequencies of
HLADR(+) CD38(+) activated CD4 T cells correlated with 2LTR circles in pTfh and
non-pTfh cells at both time points and with p24(+) cells at entry. In conclusion,
among CD4 TCM cells in PB of aviremic patients on cART, pTfh cells, in particular
the PD1(+) CXCR3(-) subset, constitute a major HIV reservoir that is sustained by
ongoing residual immune activation. The inducible HIV p24 assay is useful for
monitoring HIV reservoirs in defined CD4 T cell subsets.IMPORTANCE:
Identification of the type and nature of the cellular compartments of circulating
HIV reservoirs is important for targeting of HIV cure strategies. In lymph nodes 
(LN), a subset of CD4 T cells called T follicular helper (Tfh) cells are
preferentially infected by HIV. Central memory (TCM) CD4 T cells are the major
cellular reservoir for HIV in peripheral blood and contain a subset of CD4 TCM
cells expressing chemokine receptor CXCR5 similar in function to LN Tfh cells
termed peripheral Tfh (pTfh) cells. We found that the circulating pTfh cells are 
highly susceptible to HIV infection and that in HIV-infected patients, HIV
persists in these cells following plasma virus suppression with potent cART.
These pTfh cells, which constitute a subset of TCM CD4 T cells, can be readily
monitored in peripheral blood to assess HIV persistence.

Copyright © 2016, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.02883-15 
PMCID: PMC4810658
PMID: 26676775  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Plant Cell Environ. 2016 Apr;39(4):908-17. doi: 10.1111/pce.12693. Epub 2016 Jan 
21.

An evaluation of new and established methods to determine T-DNA copy number and
homozygosity in transgenic plants.

Głowacka K(1,)(2), Kromdijk J(1), Leonelli L(3), Niyogi KK(3,)(4), Clemente
TE(5), Long SP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Carl R. Woese Institute for Genomic Biology, University of Illinois, 1206 W
Gregory Drive, Urbana, IL, 61801, USA. (2)Institute of Plant Genetics, Polish
Academy of Sciences, ul. Strzeszyńska 34, 60-479, Poznań, Poland. (3)Howard
Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Plant and Microbial Biology, 111 Koshland
Hall, University of California Berkeley, Berkeley, CA, 94720-3102, USA.
(4)Molecular Biophysics and Integrated Bioimaging Division, Lawrence Berkeley
National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA, 94720, USA. (5)Center for Plant Science
Innovation, E324 Beadle Center, 1901 Vine Street, Lincoln, NE, 68588, USA.

Stable transformation of plants is a powerful tool for hypothesis testing. A
rapid and reliable evaluation method of the transgenic allele for copy number and
homozygosity is vital in analysing these transformations. Here the suitability of
Southern blot analysis, thermal asymmetric interlaced (TAIL-)PCR, quantitative
(q)PCR and digital droplet (dd)PCR to estimate T-DNA copy number, locus
complexity and homozygosity were compared in transgenic tobacco. Southern blot
analysis and ddPCR on three generations of transgenic offspring with contrasting 
zygosity and copy number were entirely consistent, whereas TAIL-PCR often
underestimated copy number. qPCR deviated considerably from the Southern blot
results and had lower precision and higher variability than ddPCR. Comparison of 
segregation analyses and ddPCR of T1 progeny from 26 T0 plants showed that at
least 19% of the lines carried multiple T-DNA insertions per locus, which can
lead to unstable transgene expression. Segregation analyses failed to detect
these multiple copies, presumably because of their close linkage. This shows the 
importance of routine T-DNA copy number estimation. Based on our results, ddPCR
is the most suitable method, because it is as reliable as Southern blot analysis 
yet much faster. A protocol for this application of ddPCR to large plant genomes 
is provided.

© 2015 The Authors. Plant, Cell & Environment published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/pce.12693 
PMCID: PMC5021166
PMID: 26670088  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Sci Rep. 2015 Dec 16;5:18425. doi: 10.1038/srep18425.

Clinical utility of circulating tumor DNA for molecular assessment in pancreatic 
cancer.

Takai E(1), Totoki Y(1), Nakamura H(1), Morizane C(2), Nara S(3), Hama N(1),
Suzuki M(1), Furukawa E(4), Kato M(4), Hayashi H(2,)(5), Kohno T(5), Ueno H(2),
Shimada K(3), Okusaka T(2), Nakagama H(6), Shibata T(1,)(7), Yachida S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cancer Genomics, National Cancer Center Research Institute, Tokyo 
1040045, Japan. (2)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Oncology, National 
Cancer Center Hospital, Tokyo 1040045, Japan. (3)Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic
Surgery Division, National Cancer Center Hospital, Tokyo 1040045, Japan.
(4)Department of Bioinformatics, National Cancer Center Research Institute, Tokyo
1040045, Japan. (5)Division of Genome Biology, National Cancer Center Research
Institute, Tokyo 1040045, Japan. (6)Division of Carcinogenesis and Cancer
Prevention, National Cancer Center Research Institute, Tokyo 1040045, Japan.
(7)Laboratory of Molecular Medicine, Human Genome Center, The Institute of
Medical Science, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo 1088639, Japan.

Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remains one of the most lethal
malignancies. The genomic landscape of the PDAC genome features four frequently
mutated genes (KRAS, CDKN2A, TP53, and SMAD4) and dozens of candidate driver
genes altered at low frequency, including potential clinical targets. Circulating
cell-free DNA (cfDNA) is a promising resource to detect and monitor molecular
characteristics of tumors. In the present study, we determined the mutational
status of KRAS in plasma cfDNA using multiplex picoliter-droplet digital PCR in
259 patients with PDAC. We constructed a novel modified SureSelect-KAPA-Illumina 
platform and an original panel of 60 genes. We then performed targeted deep
sequencing of cfDNA and matched germline DNA samples in 48 patients who had ≥1%
mutant allele frequencies of KRAS in plasma cfDNA. Importantly, potentially
targetable somatic mutations were identified in 14 of 48 patients (29.2%)
examined by targeted deep sequencing of cfDNA. We also analyzed somatic copy
number alterations based on the targeted sequencing data using our in-house
algorithm, and potentially targetable amplifications were detected. Assessment of
mutations and copy number alterations in plasma cfDNA may provide a prognostic
and diagnostic tool to assist decisions regarding optimal therapeutic strategies 
for PDAC patients.

DOI: 10.1038/srep18425 
PMCID: PMC4680882
PMID: 26669280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Helicobacter. 2016 Aug;21(4):325-33. doi: 10.1111/hel.12289. Epub 2015 Dec 15.

Quantitative Detection and Genotyping of Helicobacter pylori from Stool using
Droplet Digital PCR Reveals Variation in Bacterial Loads that Correlates with
cagA Virulence Gene Carriage.

Talarico S(1), Safaeian M(2), Gonzalez P(3,)(4), Hildesheim A(2), Herrero
R(3,)(4), Porras C(3), Cortes B(3), Larson A(5,)(6), Fang FC(5,)(6,)(7), Salama
NR(1,)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Human Biology, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle,
WA, USA. (2)National Cancer Institute, NIH, Rockville, MD, USA. (3)Proyecto
Epidemiológico Guanacaste, Fundación INCIENSA, Guanacaste, Costa Rica.
(4)International Agency for Research on Cancer, Lyon, France. (5)Clinical
Microbiology Laboratory, Harborview Medical Center, Seattle, WA, USA.
(6)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(7)Department of Microbiology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Epidemiologic studies of the carcinogenic stomach bacterium
Helicobacter pylori have been limited by the lack of noninvasive detection and
genotyping methods. We developed a new stool-based method for detection,
quantification, and partial genotyping of H. pylori using droplet digital PCR
(ddPCR), which allows for increased sensitivity and absolute quantification by
PCR partitioning.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Stool-based ddPCR assays for H. pylori 16S gene detection 
and cagA virulence gene typing were tested using a collection of 50 matched stool
and serum samples from Costa Rican volunteers and 29 H. pylori stool
antigen-tested stool samples collected at a US hospital.
RESULTS: The stool-based H. pylori 16S ddPCR assay had a sensitivity of 84% and
100% and a specificity of 100% and 71% compared to serology and stool antigen
tests, respectively. The stool-based cagA genotyping assay detected cagA in 22
(88%) of 25 stools from CagA antibody-positive individuals and four (16%) of 25
stools from CagA antibody-negative individuals from Costa Rica. All 26 of these
samples had a Western-type cagA allele. Presence of serum CagA antibodies was
correlated with a significantly higher load of H. pylori in the stool.
CONCLUSIONS: The stool-based ddPCR assays are a sensitive, noninvasive method for
detection, quantification, and partial genotyping of H. pylori. The quantitative 
nature of ddPCR-based H. pylori detection revealed significant variation in
bacterial load among individuals that correlates with presence of the cagA
virulence gene. These stool-based ddPCR assays will facilitate future
population-based epidemiologic studies of this important human pathogen.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hel.12289 
PMCID: PMC4909588 [Available on 2017-08-01]
PMID: 26667241  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Cell Tissue Res. 2016 May;364(2):443-51. doi: 10.1007/s00441-015-2328-z. Epub
2015 Dec 11.

Tob1 is expressed in developing and adult gonads and is associated with the
P-body marker, Dcp2.

Shapouri F(1), Saeidi S(1), de Iongh RU(1), Casagranda F(1), Western PS(2),
McLaughlin EA(3), Sutherland JM(3), Hime GR(1), Familari M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neuroscience, University of Melbourne, Melbourne,
Australia. (2)Hudson Institute of Medical Research, Monash University, Melbourne,
Australia. (3)School of Environmental and Life Sciences, University of Newcastle,
Newcastle, Australia. (4)School of Biosciences, University of Melbourne,
Parkville, 3010, VIC, Melbourne, Australia. m.familari@unimelb.edu.au.

Tob1 is a member of the BTG/TOB family of proteins with established
antiproliferative function. In Danio rerio and Xenopus laevis, the Tob1 gene is
expressed from the one-cell stage through to early gastrula stages, followed in
later development by discrete expression in many tissues including the notochord 
and somites. In both mouse and human, Tob1 is expressed in many adult tissues
including the testis and ovary; however, the specific cell types are unknown. We 
examine Tob1 gene expression in mouse in developing germ cells and in sorted male
germ cells (gonocytes, spermatogonia, pachytene spermatocytes and round
spermatids) by reverse transcription and droplet digital polymerase chain
reaction (RT-ddPCR) and in adult ovary and testis by immunofluorescence with
anti-Tob1 protein staining. By RT-ddPCR, Tob1 expression was low in developing
male germ cells but was highly expressed in round spermatids. In developing
female germ cells undergoing entry into meiosis, it increased 10-fold. Tob1 was
also highly expressed in round spermatids and in oocytes in all stages of
folliculogenesis. Notably, a marker for P-bodies, Dcp-2, was also highly
expressed in round spermatids and all oocyte stages examined. The cytoplasmic
presence of Tob1 protein in round spermatids and oocytes and the association of
Tob1 protein with Dcp2 in both cell types suggest that Tob1 protein plays a role 
in post-transcriptional mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1007/s00441-015-2328-z 
PMID: 26662055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. J Clin Microbiol. 2016 Feb;54(2):392-400. doi: 10.1128/JCM.02611-15. Epub 2015
Dec 9.

Detection of Rare Drug Resistance Mutations by Digital PCR in a Human Influenza A
Virus Model System and Clinical Samples.

Whale AS(1), Bushell CA(2), Grant PR(3), Cowen S(4), Gutierrez-Aguirre I(5),
O'Sullivan DM(2), Žel J(5), Milavec M(5), Foy CA(2), Nastouli E(3), Garson JA(6),
Huggett JF(7).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Cell Biology Team, LGC, Teddington, United Kingdom
alexandra.whale@lgcgroup.com. (2)Molecular and Cell Biology Team, LGC,
Teddington, United Kingdom. (3)Virology Laboratory, Clinical Microbiology and
Virology, University College London Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, London, United
Kingdom. (4)Statistics Team, LGC, Teddington, United Kingdom. (5)National
Institute of Biology, Ljubljana, Slovenia. (6)Department of Infection, Division
of Infection and Immunity, University College London, London, United Kingdom.
(7)Molecular and Cell Biology Team, LGC, Teddington, United Kingdom Department of
Infection, Division of Infection and Immunity, University College London, London,
United Kingdom.

Digital PCR (dPCR) is being increasingly used for the quantification of sequence 
variations, including single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), due to its high
accuracy and precision in comparison with techniques such as quantitative PCR
(qPCR) and melt curve analysis. To develop and evaluate dPCR for SNP detection
using DNA, RNA, and clinical samples, an influenza virus model of resistance to
oseltamivir (Tamiflu) was used. First, this study was able to recognize and
reduce off-target amplification in dPCR quantification, thereby enabling
technical sensitivities down to 0.1% SNP abundance at a range of template
concentrations, a 50-fold improvement on the qPCR assay used routinely in the
clinic. Second, a method was developed for determining the false-positive rate
(background) signal. Finally, comparison of dPCR with qPCR results on clinical
samples demonstrated the potential impact dPCR could have on clinical research
and patient management by earlier (trace) detection of rare drug-resistant
sequence variants. Ultimately this could reduce the quantity of ineffective drugs
taken and facilitate early switching to alternative medication when available. In
the short term such methods could advance our understanding of microbial dynamics
and therapeutic responses in a range of infectious diseases such as HIV, viral
hepatitis, and tuberculosis. Furthermore, the findings presented here are
directly relevant to other diagnostic areas, such as the detection of rare SNPs
in malignancy, monitoring of graft rejection, and fetal screening.

Copyright © 2016 Whale et al.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.02611-15 
PMCID: PMC4733194
PMID: 26659206  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Oncotarget. 2016 Jan 19;7(3):3453-60. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.6498.

HER2 genomic amplification in circulating tumor DNA from patients with
cetuximab-resistant colorectal cancer.

Takegawa N(1), Yonesaka K(1), Sakai K(2), Ueda H(1), Watanabe S(1), Nonagase
Y(1), Okuno T(1), Takeda M(1), Maenishi O(3), Tsurutani J(1), Satoh T(4), Okamoto
I(5), Nishio K(2), Tamura T(1), Nakagawa K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Kinki University School of Medicine, Osaka,
Japan. (2)Department of Genome Biology, Kinki University School of Medicine,
Osaka, Japan. (3)Department of Pathology, Kinki University School of Medicine,
Osaka, Japan. (4)Department of Frontier Science for Cancer and Chemotherapy,
Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka, Japan. (5)Center for
Clinical and Translational Research, Kyushu University, Kyushu, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) harboring wild-type
KRAS benefit from epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-targeted therapy.
However, patients who are treated with anti-EGFR antibodies will eventually
develop the resistance to those agents. HER2 amplification is one of the
mechanisms conferring resistance to anti-EGFR antibody therapy and could
therefore be a potential therapeutic target. The aim of this study was to detect 
HER2 amplification in circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) from patients with CRC and
acquired resistance to anti-EGFR antibody therapy.
RESULTS: Our data showed that 22% (4/18) of patients in the cohort exhibited HER2
amplification. One of these patients was found to be positive for HER2
amplification in matched tumor specimens collected after cetuximab therapy, at
which point the patient had acquired cetuximab resistance, despite being negative
for HER2 amplification prior to therapy.
METHODS: We analyzed plasma ctDNA using digital polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
from 18 patients with CRC, who had been treated with anti-EGFR antibody-based
therapy (cetuximab) and subsequently acquired resistant cetuximab. HER2 gene copy
number was analyzed using fluorescence in situ hybridization in tumor samples
before and after acquisition of resistance to cetuximab-based therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Analysis of plasma ctDNA by digital PCR could be useful for
detecting HER2 amplification in patients with CRC who were resistant to anti-EGFR
antibody therapy.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.6498 
PMCID: PMC4823119
PMID: 26657506  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Gene. 2016 Feb 15;577(2):236-43. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2015.11.051. Epub 2015 Dec
2.

Macaca specific exon creation event generates a novel ZKSCAN5 transcript.

Kim YH(1), Choe SH(1), Song BS(2), Park SJ(2), Kim MJ(2), Park YH(2), Yoon SB(1),
Lee Y(2), Jin YB(2), Sim BW(2), Kim JS(1), Jeong KJ(2), Kim SU(1), Lee SR(1),
Park YI(3), Huh JW(4), Chang KT(5).

Author information: 
(1)National Primate Research Center, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and
Biotechnology (KRIBB), Cheongju 363-883, Republic of Korea; University of Science
& Technology, National Primate Research Center, KRIBB, Cheongju 363-883, Republic
of Korea. (2)National Primate Research Center, Korea Research Institute of
Bioscience and Biotechnology (KRIBB), Cheongju 363-883, Republic of Korea.
(3)Graduate School Department of Digital Media, Ewha Womans University, Seoul
120-750, Republic of Korea. (4)National Primate Research Center, Korea Research
Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology (KRIBB), Cheongju 363-883, Republic of 
Korea; University of Science & Technology, National Primate Research Center,
KRIBB, Cheongju 363-883, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:
huhjw@kribb.re.kr. (5)National Primate Research Center, Korea Research Institute 
of Bioscience and Biotechnology (KRIBB), Cheongju 363-883, Republic of Korea;
University of Science & Technology, National Primate Research Center, KRIBB,
Cheongju 363-883, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: changkt@kribb.re.kr.

ZKSCAN5 (also known as ZFP95) is a zinc-finger protein belonging to the Krűppel
family. ZKSCAN5 contains a SCAN box and a KRAB A domain and is proposed to play a
distinct role during spermatogenesis. In humans, alternatively spliced ZKSCAN5
transcripts with different 5'-untranslated regions (UTRs) have been identified.
However, investigation of our Macaca UniGene Database revealed novel alternative 
ZKSCAN5 transcripts that arose due to an exon creation event. Therefore, in this 
study, we identified the full-length sequences of ZKSCAN5 and its alternative
transcripts in Macaca spp. Additionally, we investigated different nonhuman
primate sequences to elucidate the molecular mechanism underlying the exon
creation event. We analyzed the evolutionary features of the ZKSCAN5 transcripts 
by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and genomic PCR, and 
by sequencing various nonhuman primate DNA and RNA samples. The exon-created
transcript was only detected in the Macaca lineage (crab-eating monkey and rhesus
monkey). Full-length sequence analysis by rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE)
identified ten full-length transcripts and four functional isoforms of ZKSCAN5.
Protein sequence analyses revealed the presence of two groups of isoforms that
arose because of differences in start-codon usage. Together, our results
demonstrate that there has been specific selection for a discrete set of ZKSCAN5 
variants in the Macaca lineage. Furthermore, study of this locus (and perhaps
others) in Macaca spp. might facilitate our understanding of the evolutionary
pressures that have shaped the mechanism of exon creation in primates.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2015.11.051 
PMID: 26657034  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Environ Toxicol Pharmacol. 2016 Jan;41:62-71. doi: 10.1016/j.etap.2015.11.007.
Epub 2015 Nov 12.

Transcriptome profiling and pathway analysis of hepatotoxicity induced by tris
(2-ethylhexyl) trimellitate (TOTM) in mice.

Chen XH(1), Ma L(1), Hu YX(2), Wang DX(2), Fang L(1), Li XL(1), Zhao JC(1), Yu
HR(1), Ying HZ(2), Yu CH(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory for Medical Device Safety Evaluation and Research, Zhejiang
Institute of Medical Device Supervision and Testing, Hangzhou 310018, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Experimental Animal and Safety Evaluation, Zhejiang Academy 
of Medical Sciences, Hangzhou 310013, China. (3)Key Laboratory of Experimental
Animal and Safety Evaluation, Zhejiang Academy of Medical Sciences, Hangzhou
310013, China. Electronic address: yuchenhuan2002@163.com.

Tris (2-ethylhexyl) trimellitate (TOTM) is commonly used as an alternative
plasticizer for medical devices. But very little information was available on its
biological effects. In this study, we investigated toxicity effects of TOTM on
hepatic differential gene expression analyzed by using high-throughput sequencing
analysis for over-represented functions and phenotypically anchored to
complementary histopathologic, and biochemical data in the liver of mice. Among
1668 candidate genes, 694 genes were up-regulated and 974 genes were
down-regulated after TOTM exposure. Using Gene Ontology analysis, TOTM affected
three processes: the cell cycle, metabolic process and oxidative activity.
Furthermore, 11 key genes involved in the above processes were validated by real 
time PCR. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis
revealed that these genes were involved in the cell cycle pathway, lipid
metabolism and oxidative process. It revealed the transcriptome gene expression
response to TOTM exposure in mouse, and these data could contribute to provide a 
clearer understanding of the molecular mechanisms of TOTM-induced hepatotoxicity 
in human.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.etap.2015.11.007 
PMID: 26650799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. PLoS One. 2015 Dec 9;10(12):e0144170. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0144170.
eCollection 2015.

Detection of BRAF Mutation in Urine DNA as a Molecular Diagnostic for Canine
Urothelial and Prostatic Carcinoma.

Mochizuki H(1), Shapiro SG(1), Breen M(1,)(2,)(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biomedical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine,
North Carolina State University, Raleigh, North Carolina, United States of
America. (2)Comparative Medicine Institute, North Carolina State University,
Raleigh, North Carolina, United States of America. (3)Center for Human Health and
the Environment, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, North Carolina, United
States of America. (4)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North
Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States of America.

Urothelial carcinoma (UC) of the lower urinary tract and prostatic carcinoma (PC)
are aggressive genitourinary cancers in dogs, characterized by invasion to
surrounding tissues and high metastatic potential. Current diagnosis of canine UC
and PC requires histopathological examination of a biopsy. Such specimens require
specialized medical equipment and are invasive procedures, limiting the
availability of diagnosis by histopathology for many canine patients. Access to a
non-invasive means to confirm diagnosis is currently an unmet need. Recently, the
canine BRAF V595E mutation was detected in ~80% of canine UCs and PCs. In this
study, we developed a droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) assay for detection of the
canine BRAF V595E mutation in canine urogenital tumors. The assay was evaluated
in DNA samples prepared from biopsy specimens of UC (n = 48) and PC (n = 27), as 
well and non-neoplastic bladder epithelium (n = 38). In addition the assay was
assessed for use with DNA isolated from free catch urine samples derived from
canine patients with UC (n = 23), PC (n = 3), as well as from dogs with cystitis 
and healthy controls (n = 37). In all cases the sensitivity to detect the mutant 
allele was compared with conventional Sanger sequencing. ddPCR had superior
sensitivity for detection of the V595E mutation: 75% of UC, 85% of PC, and 0% of 
control samples were mutation positive, respectively, and the V595E mutation was 
detected at a level as low as just 1 in 10,000 alleles (~0.01%). Furthermore, the
ddPCR assay identified the mutation in free catch urine samples from 83% of
canine UC and PC patients, demonstrating its utility as a non-invasive means of
diagnosis. We have shown that ddPCR is a sensitive molecular technique with the
potential to facilitate accurate and non-invasive means of canine UC and PC
diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0144170 
PMCID: PMC4674145
PMID: 26649430 


572. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2015 Dec 4. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.000819. [Epub ahead
of print]

Aquitalea pelogenes sp. nov., isolated from mineral peloid.

Sedlacek I(1), Kwon SW(2), Švec P(3), Mašlaňová I(4), Kýrová K(5), Holochová
P(6), Černohlávková J(7), Busse HJ(8).

Author information: 
(1)1Masaryk University. (2)2Agricultural Microbiology Division, National Academy 
of Agricultural Science, Wanju-gun, Jeollabuk-do 565-851, Republic of Korea.
(3)3Masaryk University. (4)4Masaryk University. (5)5Masaryk University.
(6)6Masaryk University. (7)7Masaryk University. (8)8University of Veterinary
Medicine Vienna.

Strain P1297T was isolated in the frame of a project aimed on the psychrotolerant
microbiota occurring in water sources. The strain initially identified as
tentative Aeromonas sp. was rod-shaped, Gram-stain-negative, facultatively
anaerobic, oxidase positive. Subsequently, 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis placed
P1297T within the class Betaproteobacteria and showed Aquitalea magnusonii
TRO-001DR8T as its closest phylogenetic relative with which it shared 99.28 %
sequence similarity. Digital DDH and average nucleotide identity (ANI) were
determined to evaluate the genomic relationship among P1297T and Aquitalea
magnusonii CCM 7607T. Digital DDH estimation (31.3 ± 2.46 %) as well as ANI
(85.6001 %; reciprocal value 85.3277 %) proved the dissimilarity of the P1297T.
Further investigation using phenotyping, automated ribotyping, whole-cell protein
profiling and PCR fingerprinting methods showed distinct taxonomic position of
P1297T among hitherto described Aquitalea spp. DNA-DNA hybridization experiments 
revealed low binding values between strain P1297T and Aquitalea magnusonii CCM
7607T (57±3 %) and Aquitalea denitrificans CCM 7935T (41±5 %). The mol % G+C
content of the DNA of strain P1297T was 60.3 %. The predominant fatty acids were 
C16:17c/15iso 2-OH (47.0%), C16:0 (24.5%) and C18:17c (10.6%) and the quinone
system contained predominantly ubiquinone Q-8. The polar lipids detected were
diphosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidiylethanolamine, phosphatidylglycerol, two
unidentified phospholipids and one unidentified aminophospholipid. Obtained
results of genotypic and chemotaxonomic methods clearly proved that strain P1297T
represents a novel species of the genus Aquitalea, for which the name Aquitalea
pelogenes sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is P1297T (= CCM 7557T = LMG
28989T = CCUG 67440T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.000819 
PMID: 26637813 


573. Brief Funct Genomics. 2016 May;15(3):249-56. doi: 10.1093/bfgp/elv058. Epub 2015 
Dec 3.

Extracellular vesicle long noncoding RNA as potential biomarkers of liver cancer.

Mohankumar S, Patel T.

Analysis of extracellular vesicles (EV) and their contents may be useful as
disease biomarkers if they reflect the contents of cells of origin, differ
between normal and diseased tissue and can be reliably detected. An increasing
number of long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) are being reported to be aberrantly
expressed in human cancers. These tumor-associated lncRNA may have potential as
new biomarkers of disease. In this review, we highlight lncRNAs that are commonly
associated with hepatocellular cancer, and summarize their potential biological
roles and underlying molecular mechanisms. While lncRNA can be detected in the
circulation, their low expression within circulating vesicles will require the
use of highly sensitive detection technologies such as digital polymerase chain
reaction or next-generation sequencing. While the integrity and functional role
of tumor-specific lncRNAs within EV have yet to be established, their presence or
enrichment within tumor cell-derived EV offers promise for their potential as
disease biomarkers.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/bfgp/elv058 
PMCID: PMC4880007
PMID: 26634812 


574. Genet Mol Res. 2015 Nov 25;14(4):15050-61. doi: 10.4238/2015.November.24.13.

Applying DNA barcodes for identification of economically important species in
Brassicaceae.

Sun XQ(1), Qu YQ(1), Yao H(2), Zhang YM(1), Yan QQ(1), Hang YY(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Botany, Jiangsu Province and Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Nanjing, China. (2)Institute of Medicinal Plant Development, Chinese Academy of
Medical Sciences, Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China. (3)Institute of
Botany, Jiangsu Province and Chinese Academy of Sciences, Nanjing, China
hangyueyu@cnbg.net.

Brassicaceae is a large plant family of special interest; it includes many
economically important crops, herbs, and ornamentals, as well as model organisms.
The taxonomy of the Brassicaceae has long been controversial because of the
poorly delimited generic boundaries and artificially circumscribed tribes.
Despite great effort to delimitate species and reconstruct the phylogeny of
Brassicaceae, little research has been carried out to investigate the
applicability and effectiveness of different DNA regions as barcodes - a recent
aid for taxonomic identification - to identify economically important species in 
Brassicaceae. In this study, we evaluated the feasibility of five intensively
recommended regions [rbcL, matK, trnH-psbA, internal transcribed spacer (ITS),
ITS2] as candidate DNA barcodes to discriminate economic species of Brassicaceae 
in China and try to establish a new digital identification method for economic
plants of Brassicaceae. All sequences of 58 samples from 27 economic species
(Brassicaceae) in China were assessed in the success rates of PCR amplifications,
intra- and inter-specific divergence, DNA barcoding gaps, and efficiency of
identification. Compared with other markers, ITS showed superiority in species
discrimination with an accurate identification of 67.2% at the species level.
Consequently, as one of the most popular phylogenetic markers, our study
indicated that ITS was a powerful but not perfect barcode for Brassicaceae
identification. We further discuss the discrimination power of different loci due
to inheritance pattern, polyploidization and hybridization in species-specific
evolution. Further screening of other nuclear genes related to species isolation 
as plant barcode candidates is also proposed.

DOI: 10.4238/2015.November.24.13 
PMID: 26634467 


575. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2016 Feb;408(4):1079-94. doi: 10.1007/s00216-015-9204-2. Epub 
2015 Dec 2.

Initial diagnosis of chronic myelogenous leukemia based on quantification of
M-BCR status using droplet digital PCR.

Lund HL(1,)(2), Hughesman CB(1), McNeil K(3), Clemens S(3), Hocken K(3),
Pettersson R(3), Karsan A(3), Foster LJ(1,)(4), Haynes C(5,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Michael Smith Laboratories, University of British Columbia, 2185 East Mall,
Vancouver, BC, V6T 1Z4, Canada. (2)Genome Science and Technology Program,
University of British Columbia, 100-570 West 7th Avenue, Vancouver, BC, V5Z 4S6, 
Canada. (3)Cancer Genetics Laboratory, Department of Pathology and Laboratory
Medicine, British Columbia Cancer Agency, Vancouver, BC, V6T 2B5, Canada.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of British
Columbia, 2350 Health Sciences Mall, Vancouver, BC, V6T 1Z3, Canada. (5)Michael
Smith Laboratories, University of British Columbia, 2185 East Mall, Vancouver,
BC, V6T 1Z4, Canada. israels@mail.ubc.ca. (6)RES'EAU NSERC Research Network,
Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, University of British
Columbia, 2360 East Mall, Vancouver, BC, V6T 1Z3, Canada. israels@mail.ubc.ca.

Formed from a reciprocal translocation t(9:22)(q34;q11) of genetic material
between the long arms of human chromosomes 9 and 22, the constitutively active
breakpoint cluster region (BCR) Abelson 1 (ABL) tyrosine kinase BCR-ABL is known 
to be causative of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). In 98% of CML patients
harboring the t(9:22)(q34;q11) translocation, known as the Philadelphia
chromosome, the chimeric BCR-ABL oncogene is created through cleavage of the BCR 
gene within its major breakpoint region (M-BCR) and breakage of the ABL gene
within a 100-kbp region downstream of exon 2a. Clinical detection of the fused
BCR-ABL oncogene currently relies on direct visualization by fluorescence in situ
hybridization (FISH), a relatively tedious assay that typically offers a
detection limit of ca. 2%. Here, we describe a novel assay that uses droplet
digital PCR (ddPCR) technology to reliably measure M-BCR status and the presence 
of BCR-ABL. When applied to cell-line models of CML, the assay accurately
quantifies BCR-ABL frequency to a detection limit of 0.25%. It therefore offers
improved specificity relative to FISH, and may allow identification of variant
translocation patterns, including derivative chromosome 9 deletions.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-015-9204-2 
PMID: 26631023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Exp Mol Pathol. 2016 Apr;100(2):287-93. doi: 10.1016/j.yexmp.2015.11.027. Epub
2015 Nov 25.

Droplet digital polymerase chain reaction detection of HER2 amplification in
formalin fixed paraffin embedded breast and gastric carcinoma samples.

Zhu Y(1), Lu D(2), Lira ME(3), Xu Q(2), Du Y(2), Xiong J(2), Mao M(4), Chung
HC(5), Zheng G(6).

Author information: 
(1)Guangdong Provincial Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine (GPHTCM),
Guangzhou, China. (2)Translational Bioscience and Diagnostics, WuXi AppTec Co.,
Ltd., Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China. (3)Pfizer Oncology, San Diego,
California, United States. (4)Translational Bioscience and Diagnostics, WuXi
AppTec Co., Ltd., Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China. Electronic
address: mao_m@yahoo.com. (5)Yonsei Cancer Center, Yonsei University College of
Medicine, Seoul, South Korea. Electronic address: UNCHUNG8@yuhs.ac. (6)Guangdong 
Provincial Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine (GPHTCM), Guangzhou, China.
Electronic address: zhengguangjuan@163.com.

RATIONALE: Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) is a key driver of
tumorigenesis, and over-expression as a result of HER2 gene amplification has
been observed in a number of solid tumors. Recently HER2 has become an important 
biomarker for the monoclonal antibody treatment of HER2-positive metastatic
breast and advanced gastric cancer. The HER2 targeting antibody trastuzumab
treatment requires accurate measurement of HER2 levels for proper diagnosis.
Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) with highly direct, precise and absolute nucleic acid
quantification could be used to detect HER2 amplification levels.
OBJECTIVES: Our objective was to evaluate a robust, accurate and less subjective 
application of ddPCR for HER2 amplification levels and test the assay performance
in clinical formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) breast and gastric carcinoma 
samples.
METHODS: Genomic DNA from HER2 amplified cell line SK-BR-3 was used to set up the
ddPCR assays. The copy number of HER2 was compared to the chromosome 17
centromere reference gene (CEP17), expressed as HER2:CEP17 ratio. Genomic DNAs of
FFPE specimens from 145 Asian patients with breast and gastric carcinomas were
assayed using both standard methods, immunohistochemistry (IHC) and/or
fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), and ddPCR.
RESULTS: Based on 145 clinical breast and gastric carcinoma cases, our study
demonstrated a high concordance of ddPCR results to FISH and IHC. In breast
cancer specimens, the ddPCR results had high concordance with FISH and IHC
defined HER2 status with a sensitivity of 90.9% (30/33) and a specificity of 100%
(77/77). In gastric cancer specimens that were concordant in both FISH and IHC,
our assay was 95.5% concordant with FISH and IHC (21/22).
CONCLUSIONS: ddPCR has the advantage of automation and also allows levels of HER2
amplification to be easily evaluated in large numbers of samples, and presents a 
potential option to define HER2 status.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yexmp.2015.11.027 
PMID: 26626802  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Ann Biol Clin (Paris). 2015 Nov;73 Suppl 1:22-3. doi: 10.1684/abc.2015.1084.

[Interest of Droplet digital PCR in non-invasive prenatal testing].

[Article in French]

Orhant L(1), Vasson A(1), Leturcq F(2), Vidaud D(3), Bienvenu T(4), Nectoux J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Service de biochimie et génétique moléculaire, HUPC Hôpital Cochin, Paris,
France. (2)Service de biochimie et génétique moléculaire, HUPC Hôpital Cochin,
Paris, France, Institut de myologie UPMC UM76 Inserm U974 Cnrs UMR7215, GH
Pitié-Salpêtrière, Paris, France. (3)Service de biochimie et génétique
moléculaire, HUPC Hôpital Cochin, Paris, France, EA7331, Faculté de pharmacie
Paris, Université Paris Descartes Sorbonne Paris Cité, Paris, France. (4)Service 
de biochimie et génétique moléculaire, HUPC Hôpital Cochin, Paris, France, Inserm
U1016, Institut Cochin, Paris, France.

DOI: 10.1684/abc.2015.1084 
PMID: 26620241  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Lab Chip. 2016 Jan 7;16(1):208-16. doi: 10.1039/c5lc01068c.

Digital droplet PCR on disk.

Schuler F(1), Trotter M(2), Geltman M(2), Schwemmer F(3), Wadle S(1),
Domínguez-Garrido E(4), López M(4), Cervera-Acedo C(4), Santibáñez P(4), von
Stetten F(1), Zengerle R(1), Paust N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hahn-Schickard, Georges-Koehler-Allee 103, 79110 Freiburg, Germany and
Laboratory for MEMS Applications, IMTEK - Department of Microsystems Engineering,
University of Freiburg, Georges-Koehler-Allee 103, 79110 Freiburg, Germany.
Friedrich.Schuler@imtek.uni-freiburg.de. (2)Hahn-Schickard, Georges-Koehler-Allee
103, 79110 Freiburg, Germany. (3)Laboratory for MEMS Applications, IMTEK -
Department of Microsystems Engineering, University of Freiburg,
Georges-Koehler-Allee 103, 79110 Freiburg, Germany.
Friedrich.Schuler@imtek.uni-freiburg.de. (4)Molecular Diagnostics Laboratory,
Rioja Salud-Foundation, La Rioja, Spain.

Existing systems for digital droplet PCR (ddPCR) either suffer from low
integration or are difficult to introduce to mass fabrication. Here we present an
integrated system that is compatible to mass fabrication and combines
emulsification, PCR, and fluorescence readout in a single chamber within a
disposable cartridge (disk). Droplets are generated by injecting the sample into 
fluorinated oil via centrifugal step emulsification. The resulting emulsion is
aligned in the PCR and readout zone by capillary action. During thermocycling,
gas bubbles generated by degassing are removed by capillary driven transport
through tapered regions in the PCR chamber. Thereby, the positioning of the
emulsion within the readout zone of the PCR chamber is ensured at any time and no
bubbles are present during readout. Manual handling of the disk solely requires
pipetting of oil and PCR mix into the inlet structures, placing the disk into the
thermocycler and subsequently into a microarray scanner. The functionality of the
ddPCR process chain is demonstrated by quantitative detection of the cystic
fibrosis causing mutation p.Phe508del, which is of interest for non-invasive
prenatal testing (NIPT). The mutation was detected in a concentration range
spanning four orders of magnitude. We envision that this work will lay the base
for the development of highly integrated sample-to-digital-answer PCR systems
that can be employed in routine clinical diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1039/c5lc01068c 
PMID: 26610263  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Anal Chem. 2016 Jan 5;88(1):812-9. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.5b03238. Epub 2015
Dec 9.

Development, Optimization, and Evaluation of a Duplex Droplet Digital PCR Assay
To Quantify the T-nos/hmg Copy Number Ratio in Genetically Modified Maize.

Félix-Urquídez D(1,)(2), Pérez-Urquiza M(2), Valdez Torres JB(1), León-Félix
J(1), García-Estrada R(1), Acatzi-Silva A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Research Center for Food and Development, Culiacán, Sinaloa México.
(2)National Metrology Center, El Marqués, Querétaro México. (3)Reference National
Center for Detection of Genetically Modified Organisms, Tecámac, Estado de México
México.

Certified reference materials (CRMs) are required to guarantee the reliability of
analytical measurements. The CRMs available in the field of genetically modified 
organisms (GMOs) are characterized using real-time polymerase chain reaction
(qPCR). This technology has limited application, because of its dependence on a
calibrant. The objective of this study was to obtain a method with higher
metrological quality, to characterize the CRMs for their contents of T-nos/hmg
copy number ratio in maize. A duplex droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) assay was
developed and optimized by a central composite design. The developed method
achieved an absolute limit of detection (LOD) of 11 cP T-nos, a relative LOD of
0.034%, a limit of quantification (LOQ) of 23 cP (relative LOQ of 0.08%), and a
dynamic range of 0.08%-100% T-nos/hmg ratio. The specificity and applicability of
the assay were established for the analysis of low T-nos concentrations (0.9%) in
several corn varieties. The convenience of DNA digestion to reduce measurement
bias in the case of multiple-copy binding was confirmed through an enzymatic
restriction assay. Given its overall performance, this method can be used to
characterize CRM candidates for their contents of T-nos/hmg ratio.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.5b03238 
PMCID: PMC4718530
PMID: 26605751  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Cancer Treat Res. 2016;167:51-105. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-22539-5_3.

Methods of Melanoma Detection.

Leachman SA(1), Cassidy PB(2), Chen SC(3), Curiel C(4), Geller A(5), Gareau D(6),
Pellacani G(7), Grichnik JM(8), Malvehy J(9), North J(10), Jacques SL(11), Petrie
T(12), Puig S(13), Swetter SM(14), Tofte S(15), Weinstock MA(16).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology and Knight Cancer Institute, Oregon Health and
Science University, 3303 SW Bond Avenue, CH16D, Portland, OR, 97239, USA.
leachmas@ohsu.edu. (2)Department of Dermatology and Knight Cancer Institute,
Oregon Health and Science University, 3125 SW Sam Jackson Park Road, L468R,
Portland, OR, 97239, USA. cassidyp@ohsu.edu. (3)Department of Dermatology, Emory 
University School of Medicine, 1525 Clifton Road NE, 1st Floor, Atlanta, GA,
30322, USA. schen2@emory.edu. (4)Department of Dermatology and Arizona Cancer
Center, University of Arizona, 1515 N Campbell Avenue, Tucson, AZ, 85721, USA.
ccuriel@email.arizona.edu. (5)Department of Dermatology, Harvard School of Public
Health and Massachusetts General Hospital, Landmark Center, 401 Park Drive, 3rd
Floor East, Boston, MA, 02215, USA. ageller@hsph.harvard.edu. (6)Laboratory of
Investigative Dermatology, The Rockefeller University, 1230 York Avenue, New
York, NY, 10065, USA. daniel.gareau@rockefeller.edu. (7)Department of
Dermatology, University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Via del Pozzo 71, Modena,
Italy. giovanni.pellacani@unimore.it. (8)Department of Dermatology and Cutaneous 
Surgery, University of Miami School of Medicine, Room 912, BRB (R-125), 1501 NW
10th Avenue, Miami, FL, 33136, USA. grichnik@miami.edu. (9)Melanoma Unit,
Dermatology Department, Hospital Clinic Barcelona, Villarroel 170, 08036,
Barcelona, Spain. jmalvehy@clinic.ub.es. (10)University of California, San
Francisco, 1701 Divisadero Street, Suite 280, San Francisco, CA, 94115, USA.
jeffrey.north@ucsf.edu. (11)Department of Biomedical Engineering and Dermatology,
Oregon Health and Science University, 3303 SW Bond Avenue, CH13B, Portland, OR,
97239, USA. jacquess@ohsu.edu. (12)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Oregon
Health and Science University, 3303 SW Bond Avenue, CH13B, Portland, OR, 97239,
USA. petrie@ohsu.edu. (13)Melanoma Unit, Dermatology Department, Hospital Clinic 
Barcelona, Villarroel 170, 08036, Barcelona, Spain. spuig@clinic.ub.es.
(14)Department of Dermatology/Cutaneous Oncology, Stanford University, 900 Blake 
Wilbur Drive, W3045, Stanford, CA, 94305, USA. sswetter@stanford.edu.
(15)Department of Dermatology, Oregon Health and Science University, 3303 SW Bond
Avenue, CH16D, Portland, OR, 97239, USA. toftes@ohsu.edu. (16)Departments of
Dermatology and Epidemiology, Brown University, V A Medical Center 111D, 830
Chalkstone Avenue, Providence, RI, 02908, USA. maw@brown.edu.

Detection and removal of melanoma, before it has metastasized, dramatically
improves prognosis and survival. The purpose of this chapter is to (1) summarize 
current methods of melanoma detection and (2) review state-of-the-art detection
methods and technologies that have the potential to reduce melanoma mortality.
Current strategies for the detection of melanoma range from population-based
educational campaigns and screening to the use of algorithm-driven imaging
technologies and performance of assays that identify markers of transformation.
This chapter will begin by describing state-of-the-art methods for educating and 
increasing awareness of at-risk individuals and for performing comprehensive
screening examinations. Standard and advanced photographic methods designed to
improve reliability and reproducibility of the clinical examination will also be 
reviewed. Devices that magnify and/or enhance malignant features of individual
melanocytic lesions (and algorithms that are available to interpret the results
obtained from these devices) will be compared and contrasted. In vivo confocal
microscopy and other cellular-level in vivo technologies will be compared to
traditional tissue biopsy, and the role of a noninvasive "optical biopsy" in the 
clinical setting will be discussed. Finally, cellular and molecular methods that 
have been applied to the diagnosis of melanoma, such as comparative genomic
hybridization (CGH), fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH), and quantitative
reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), will be discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-22539-5_3 
PMID: 26601859  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. J Mol Diagn. 2016 Jan;18(1):23-31. doi: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2015.08.001. Epub 2015
Nov 18.

Ultrasensitive Detection of Multiplexed Somatic Mutations Using MALDI-TOF Mass
Spectrometry.

Mosko MJ(1), Nakorchevsky AA(1), Flores E(1), Metzler H(1), Ehrich M(2), van den 
Boom DJ(2), Sherwood JL(3), Nygren AO(4).

Author information: 
(1)Agena Bioscience, San Diego, California. (2)Sequenom, San Diego, California.
(3)AstraZeneca, Cambridge, United Kingdom. (4)Agena Bioscience, San Diego,
California. Electronic address: anders.nygren@agenabio.com.

Multiplex detection of low-frequency mutations is becoming a necessary diagnostic
tool for clinical laboratories interested in noninvasive prognosis and
prediction. Challenges include the detection of minor alleles among abundant
wild-type alleles, the heterogeneous nature of tumors, and the limited amount of 
available tissue. A method that can reliably detect minor variants <1% in a
multiplexed reaction using a platform amenable to a variety of throughputs would 
meet these requirements. We developed a novel approach, UltraSEEK, for
high-throughput, multiplexed, ultrasensitive mutation detection and used it for
detection of mutant sequence mixtures as low as 0.1% minor allele frequency. The 
process consisted of multiplex PCR, followed by mutation-specific, single-base
extension using chain terminators labeled with a moiety for solid phase capture. 
The captured and enriched products were then identified using matrix-assisted
laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry. For verification,
we successfully analyzed ultralow fractions of mutations in a set of
characterized cell lines, and included a direct comparison to droplet digital
PCR. Finally, we verified the specificity in a set of 122 paired tumor and
circulating cell-free DNA samples from melanoma patients. Our results show that
the UltraSEEK chemistry is a particularly powerful approach for the detection of 
somatic variants, with the potential to be an invaluable resource to
investigators in saving time and material without compromising analytical
sensitivity and accuracy.

Copyright © 2016 American Society for Investigative Pathology and the Association
for Molecular Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2015.08.001 
PMID: 26596526  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. J Mol Diagn. 2016 Jan;18(1):68-74. doi: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2015.07.007. Epub 2015
Nov 18.

Quantification of the Mutant CALR Allelic Burden by Digital PCR: Application to
Minimal Residual Disease Evaluation after Bone Marrow Transplantation.

Mansier O(1), Migeon M(2), Saint-Lézer A(3), James C(4), Verger E(5), Robin M(6),
Socié G(6), Bidet A(2), Mahon FX(1), Cassinat B(5), Lippert E(7).

Author information: 
(1)Hematology Laboratory, CHU de Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France; Leukemic
Hematopoiesis and Therapeutic Targets Laboratory, Biothérapie des maladies
génétiques et cancers, Université de Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France. (2)Hematology
Laboratory, CHU de Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France. (3)Service of Blood Diseases, CHU 
de Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France. (4)Hematology Laboratory, CHU de Bordeaux,
Bordeaux, France; Cardiovascular Adaptation to Ischemia, Université de Bordeaux, 
Bordeaux, France. (5)Cell Biology Service, Hôpital Saint-Louis, Assistance
Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Paris, France. (6)Hematology Transplants Service,
Hôpital Saint-Louis, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Paris, France.
(7)Hematology Laboratory, CHU de Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France; Leukemic
Hematopoiesis and Therapeutic Targets Laboratory, Biothérapie des maladies
génétiques et cancers, Université de Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France. Electronic
address: eric.lippert@univ-brest.fr.

With the recent discovery of CALR mutations, >80% of patients with
myeloproliferative neoplasms carry a phenotype-driving mutation. For JAK2 V617F, 
the most frequent mutation in myeloproliferative neoplasms, accurate
determination of mutational loads is of interest at diagnosis, for phenotypic and
prognostic purposes, and during follow-up for minimal residual disease
assessment. We developed a digital PCR technique that allowed the accurate
determination of CALR allelic burdens for the main mutations (types 1 and 2).
Compared with the commonly used fluorescent PCR product analysis, digital PCR is 
more precise, reproducible, and accurate. Furthermore, this method reached a very
high sensitivity. We detected at least 0.025% CALR mutants. It can thus be used
for patient characterization at diagnosis and for minimal residual disease
monitoring. When applied to patients with primary myelofibrosis who underwent
hematopoietic stem cell transplant, the digital PCR detected low levels of
minimal residual disease. After negativation of the mutational load in all
patients, the disease reappeared at a low level in one patient, preceding
hematologic relapse. In conclusion, digital PCR adapted to type 1 and 2 CALR
mutations is an inexpensive, highly precise, and sensitive technique suitable for
evaluation of myeloproliferative neoplasm patients during follow-up.

Copyright © 2016 American Society for Investigative Pathology and the Association
for Molecular Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2015.07.007 
PMID: 26596525  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Oncotarget. 2015 Dec 8;6(39):41497-507. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.6359.

Donor-derived stem-cells and epithelial mesenchymal transition in squamous cell
carcinoma in transplant recipients.

Verneuil L(1,)(2,)(3,)(4), Leboeuf C(1,)(2), Bousquet G(1,)(2), Brugiere
C(1,)(2,)(3,)(4), Elbouchtaoui M(1,)(2,)(5), Plassa LF(2), Peraldi MN(2,)(6),
Lebbé C(2,)(6), Ratajczak P(1,)(2), Janin A(1,)(2,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)INSERM, UMR_S1165, Paris, F-75010, France. (2)Department of Pathology,
Université Paris Diderot, UMR_S1165, F-75010 Paris, France. (3)Department of
Dermatology, CHU Caen, Caen, F-14033, France. (4)Université de Caen Normandie,
Medical School, Caen, F-14000, France. (5)Department of Pathology, AP-HP, Hôpital
Saint-Louis, Paris, F-75010, France. (6)Department of Dermatology, AP-HP, Hôpital
Saint-Louis, Paris, F-75010, France.

BACKGROUND: Skin squamous-cell-carcinoma (SCC), is the main complication in
long-term kidney-transplant recipients, and it can include donor-derived cells.
Preclinical models demonstrated the involvement of epithelial mesenchymal
transition (EMT) in the progression of skin SCC, and the role of Snail, an EMT
transcription factor, in cancer stem-cell survival and expansion.Here, we studied
stem-cells and EMT expression in SCCs and concomitant actinic keratoses (AK) in
kidney-transplant recipients.
METHODS: In SCC and AK in 3 female recipients of male kidney-transplants,
donor-derived Y chromosome in epidermal stem cells was assessed using combined
XY-FISH/CD133 immunostaining, and digital-droplet-PCR on laser-microdissected
CD133 expressing epidermal cells.For EMT study, double immunostainings of CD133
with vimentin or snail and slug, electron microscopy and immunostainings of
keratinocytes junctions were performed. Digital droplet PCR was used to check
CDH1 (E-cadherin) expression level in laser-microdissected cells co-expressing
CD133 and vimentin or snail and slug.The numbers of Y-chromosome were assessed
using digital droplet PCR in laser-microdissected cells co-expressing CD133 and
vimentin, or snail and slug, and in CD133 positive cells not expressing any EMT
maker.
RESULTS: We identified donor-derived stem-cells in basal layers and invasive
areas in all skin SCCs and in concomitant AKs, but not in surrounding normal
skin.The donor-derived stem-cells expressed the EMT markers, vimentin, snail and 
slug in SCCs but not in AKs. The expression of the EMT transcription factor,
SNAI1, was higher in stem-cells when they expressed vimentin. They were located
in invasive areas of SCCs. In these areas, the expressions of claudin-1 and
desmoglein 1 were reduced or absent, and within the basal layer there were
features of basal membrane disappearance.Donor-derived stem cells were in larger 
numbers in stem cells co-expressing vimentin or snail and slug than in stem cells
not expressing any EMT marker.
CONCLUSIONS: We identified here donor-derived stem cells within skin SCC in
kidney-transplant recipients. They were located in invasive areas of SCC and had 
EMT characteristics.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.6359 
PMCID: PMC4747169
PMID: 26594799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Data Brief. 2015 Oct 8;5:461-7. doi: 10.1016/j.dib.2015.09.036. eCollection 2015.

Structure and fabrication details of an integrated modularized microfluidic
system.

Tian Q(1), Mu Y(2), Xu Y(2), Song Q(2), Yu B(2), Ma C(2), Jin W(2), Jin Q(2).

Author information: 
(1)Research Center for Analytical Instrumentation, Institute of Cyber Systems and
Control, State Key Laboratory of Industrial Control Technology, Zhejiang
University, Hangzhou 310058, Zhejiang, PR China ; College of Life Sciences,
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, Zhejiang, PR China. (2)Research Center for 
Analytical Instrumentation, Institute of Cyber Systems and Control, State Key
Laboratory of Industrial Control Technology, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou
310058, Zhejiang, PR China.

This article contains schemes, original experimental data and figures for an
integrated modularized microfluidic system described in "An integrated
microfluidic system for bovine DNA purification and digital PCR detection [1]".
In this data article, we described the structure and fabrication of the
integrated modularized microfluidic system. This microfluidic system was applied 
to isolate DNA from ovine tissue lysate and detect the bovine DNA with digital
PCR (dPCR). The DNA extraction efficiency of the microdevice was compared with
the efficiency of benchtop protocol.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dib.2015.09.036 
PMCID: PMC4610953
PMID: 26594657 


585. Iran J Public Health. 2015 Aug;44(8):1061-71.

The Analysis of Gene Expression on Fertility Decline in Caenorhabditis elegans
after the Treatment with 5-Fluorouracil.

Zhang S(1), Lu Z(2), Liang H(2), Fu X(2), Zhang Y(3), Liu X(4), Bao G(2), Jing
T(2), Wang X(5), Wang M(6), Wu J(7), Chen G(8).

Author information: 
(1)Pathogens Biology Institute, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Lanzhou
University, Gansu, China ; Maternal and Child Health Hospital of Fengtai District
of Beijing City, Beijing, China. (2)Pathogens Biology Institute, School of Basic 
Medical Sciences, Lanzhou University, Gansu, China. (3)Dept. of Anesthesiology,
First Hospital, Lanzhou University, Gansu, China. (4)Institute of Integrated
Chinese and Western Medicine, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Lanzhou
University, Gansu, China. (5)Pathogens Biology Institute, School of Basic Medical
Sciences, Lanzhou University, Gansu, China ; Suqian Hospital of Traditional
Chinese Medicine, Jiangsu, China. (6)Pathogens Biology Institute, School of Basic
Medical Sciences, Lanzhou University, Gansu, China ; Tianjin First Center
Hospital, Tianjin, China. (7)Pathogens Biology Institute, School of Basic Medical
Sciences, Lanzhou University, Gansu, China ; Shandong Center for Disease Control 
and Prevention, Shandong, China. (8)Pathogens Biology Institute, School of Basic 
Medical Sciences, Lanzhou University, Gansu, China ; Key Lab of Preclinical Study
for New Drugs of Gansu Province, Gansu, China.

BACKGROUND: 5-Fluorouracil could lead to a decline in fertility in Caenorhabditis
elegans. The aim of this study was to describe the mechanisms underlying such an 
altered fertility phenotype and to illustrate the specific genes and pathways
that are involved in the related phenotypic changes in C. elegans.
METHODS: We isolated total RNA from the samples and used a new method called
Digital Gene Expression (DGE), which can rapidly identify genes with altered
transcript levels. The random genes were confirmed by real-time RT-PCR.
RESULTS: We analyzed the results of two methods to draw conclusions based on a
comparison between C. elegans and other harmful parasites. Compared with
controls, 1147 genes were up-regulated, and 1067 were down-regulated. Overall,
101 up-regulated genes had a log2 ratio higher than 8, whereas the log2 ratio of 
141 down-regulated genes was higher than 8. After mapping to the reference
database, 4 pathways were confirmed to be involved in this phenomenon, with
statistically significant participation from 19 genes.
CONCLUSION: For the first time, the transcript sequence of 5-Fu-treated worms and
controls was detected. We found that 4 possible pathways, i.e., ECM-receptor
interaction pathway, TGF-beta signaling pathway, Focal adhesion and Hypertrophic 
cardiomyopathy, may be involved in the number decline in the embryos of C.
elegans. Specifically, the ECM-receptor interaction pathway and Focal adhesion
may be very important pathways that alter the reproduction of C. elegans.


PMCID: PMC4645726
PMID: 26587470 


586. Front Plant Sci. 2015 Nov 4;6:964. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2015.00964. eCollection
2015.

Transcriptome sequencing of purple petal spot region in tree peony reveals
differentially expressed anthocyanin structural genes.

Zhang Y(1), Cheng Y(1), Ya H(1), Xu S(1), Han J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Life Science Department, Luoyang Normal University Luoyang, China.

The pigmented cells in defined region of a petal constitute the petal spots.
Petal spots attract pollinators and are found in many angiosperm families.
Several cultivars of tree peony contain a single red or purple spot at the base
of petal that makes the flower more attractive for the ornamental market. So far,
the understanding of the molecular mechanism of spot formation is inadequate. In 
this study, we sequenced the transcriptome of the purple spot and the white
non-spot of tree peony flower. We assembled and annotated 67,892 unigenes.
Comparative analyses of the two transcriptomes showed 1,573 differentially
expressed genes, among which 933 were up-regulated, and 640 were down-regulated
in the purple spot. Subsequently, we examined four anthocyanin structural genes, 
including PsCHS, PsF3'H, PsDFR, and PsANS, which expressed at a significantly
higher level in the purple spot than in the white non-spot. We further validated 
the digital expression data using quantitative real-time PCR. Our result
uncovered transcriptome variance between the spot and non-spot of tree peony
flower, and revealed that the co-expression of four anthocyanin structural genes 
was responsible for spot pigment in tree peony. The data will further help to
unravel the genetic mechanism of peony flower spot formation.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2015.00964 
PMCID: PMC4631938
PMID: 26583029 


587. J Cosmet Dermatol. 2016 Mar;15(1):49-57. doi: 10.1111/jocd.12193. Epub 2015 Nov
18.

A comparative study of the effects of retinol and retinoic acid on histological, 
molecular, and clinical properties of human skin.

Kong R(1), Cui Y(2), Fisher GJ(2), Wang X(3), Chen Y(3), Schneider LM(1),
Majmudar G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research and Development, Amway Corporation, Ada, MI, USA. (2)Department of
Dermatology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. (3)Skin Testing
Laboratory, Amway China Research and Development Centre, Shanghai, China.

BACKGROUND: All-trans retinol, a precursor of retinoic acid, is an effective
anti-aging treatment widely used in skin care products. In comparison, topical
retinoic acid is believed to provide even greater anti-aging effects; however,
there is limited research directly comparing the effects of retinol and retinoic 
acid on skin.
OBJECTIVES: In this study, we compare the effects of retinol and retinoic acid on
skin structure and expression of skin function-related genes and proteins. We
also examine the effect of retinol treatment on skin appearance.
METHODS: Skin histology was examined by H&E staining and in vivo confocal
microscopy. Expression levels of skin genes and proteins were analyzed using
RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry. The efficacy of a retinol formulation in
improving skin appearance was assessed using digital image-based wrinkle
analysis.
RESULTS: Four weeks of retinoic acid and retinol treatments both increased
epidermal thickness, and upregulated genes for collagen type 1 (COL1A1), and
collagen type 3 (COL3A1) with corresponding increases in procollagen I and
procollagen III protein expression. Facial image analysis showed a significant
reduction in facial wrinkles following 12 weeks of retinol application.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study demonstrate that topical application of
retinol significantly affects both cellular and molecular properties of the
epidermis and dermis, as shown by skin biopsy and noninvasive imaging analyses.
Although the magnitude tends to be smaller, retinol induces similar changes in
skin histology, and gene and protein expression as compared to retinoic acid
application. These results were confirmed by the significant facial anti-aging
effect observed in the retinol efficacy clinical study.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/jocd.12193 
PMID: 26578346  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Mol Cancer. 2015 Nov 14;14:194. doi: 10.1186/s12943-015-0466-2.

MicroRNA molecular profiling from matched tumor and bio-fluids in bladder cancer.

Armstrong DA(1), Green BB(2), Seigne JD(3), Schned AR(4), Marsit CJ(5,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Geisel School of Medicine at
Dartmouth, Hanover, NH, USA. David.Armstrong@Dartmouth.edu. (2)Departments of
Pharmacology and Toxicology, Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Hanover, NH,
USA. Benjamin.B.Green@Dartmouth.edu. (3)Department of Surgery (Urology),
Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH, USA.
John.D.Seigne@Dartmouth.edu. (4)Department of Pathology, Dartmouth-Hitchcock
Medical Center, Lebanon, NH, USA. Alan.R.Schned@Dartmouth.edu. (5)Departments of 
Pharmacology and Toxicology, Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Hanover, NH,
USA. Carmen.J.Marsit@dartmouth.edu. (6)Department of Epidemiology, Geisel School 
of Medicine at Dartmouth, Hanover, NH, USA. Carmen.J.Marsit@dartmouth.edu.

BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs have been identified as potential cancer biomarkers due to 
their presence and stability in many body fluids including urine and plasma, but 
the relationship of the pattern of expression of these messengers across various 
biological media has not been addressed and could provide important information
in order to translate these biomarkers for epidemiologic or clinical use.
METHODS: We analyzed microRNA of matched FFPE-tumor tissue, plasma, urine
exosomes (n = 16) and WBCs (n = 11) from patients with bladder cancer, using
Nanostring miRNA assays and droplet digital PCR for validation. Pearson
correlations were used to compare expression between media.
RESULTS: Numerous microRNAs were detected and overlapping from specific
bio-specimen sources. MiR-4454 and miR-21 overexpression was found in three
sources: tumor, WBCs and urine. Additionally, miR-15b-5p, miR-126-3p, miR-93-5p, 
and miR-150-5p were common to tumor/WBCs, while miR-720/3007a, miR-205,
miR-200c-3p and miR-29b-3p common to tumor/urine. Significant associations were
noted between the log-adjusted average miRNA counts in tumor vs. WBCs (r = 0.418 
p < 0.001), and tumor vs. urine (r = 0.38 p < 0.001). No association was seen
tumor vs. plasma exosome miRs (r = 0.07 p = 0.06).
CONCLUSIONS: MicroRNA profiling from matched samples in patients shows a
significant number of microRNAs up regulated in bladder tumors are identifiable
in urine exosomes and WBCs of the same patient, but not in blood plasma. This
study demonstrated varying relationships between miRNA detected in biological
media from the same patient, and serves to inform the potential of urine-based
microRNAs as biomarkers for bladder cancer and potentially other malignancies.

DOI: 10.1186/s12943-015-0466-2 
PMCID: PMC4650939
PMID: 26576778  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. PLoS One. 2015 Nov 17;10(11):e0143343. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0143343.
eCollection 2015.

Somatic Mutation Allelic Ratio Test Using ddPCR (SMART-ddPCR): An Accurate Method
for Assessment of Preferential Allelic Imbalance in Tumor DNA.

de Smith AJ(1), Walsh KM(2), Hansen HM(2), Endicott AA(1), Wiencke JK(2), Metayer
C(3), Wiemels JL(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of California San
Francisco, San Francisco, California, United States of America. (2)Division of
Neuroepidemiology, Department of Neurological Surgery, University of California
San Francisco, San Francisco, California, United States of America. (3)School of 
Public Health, University of California, Berkeley, California, United States of
America.

The extent to which heritable genetic variants can affect tumor development has
yet to be fully elucidated. Tumor selection of single nucleotide polymorphism
(SNP) risk alleles, a phenomenon called preferential allelic imbalance (PAI), has
been demonstrated in some cancer types. We developed a novel application of
digital PCR termed Somatic Mutation Allelic Ratio Test using Droplet Digital PCR 
(SMART-ddPCR) for accurate assessment of tumor PAI, and have applied this method 
to test the hypothesis that heritable SNPs associated with childhood acute
lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) may demonstrate tumor PAI. These SNPs are located at
CDKN2A (rs3731217) and IKZF1 (rs4132601), genes frequently lost in ALL, and at
CEBPE (rs2239633), ARID5B (rs7089424), PIP4K2A (rs10764338), and GATA3
(rs3824662), genes located on chromosomes gained in high-hyperdiploid ALL. We
established thresholds of AI using constitutional DNA from SNP heterozygotes, and
subsequently measured allelic copy number in tumor DNA from 19-142 heterozygote
samples per SNP locus. We did not find significant tumor PAI at these loci,
though CDKN2A and IKZF1 SNPs showed a trend towards preferential selection of the
risk allele (p = 0.17 and p = 0.23, respectively). Using a genomic copy number
control ddPCR assay, we investigated somatic copy number alterations (SCNA)
underlying AI at CDKN2A and IKZF1, revealing a complex range of alterations
including homozygous and hemizygous deletions and copy-neutral loss of
heterozygosity, with varying degrees of clonality. Copy number estimates from
ddPCR showed high agreement with those from multiplex ligation-dependent probe
amplification (MLPA) assays. We demonstrate that SMART-ddPCR is a highly accurate
method for investigation of tumor PAI and for assessment of the somatic
alterations underlying AI. Furthermore, analysis of publicly available data from 
The Cancer Genome Atlas identified 16 recurrent SCNA loci that contain heritable 
cancer risk SNPs associated with a matching tumor type, and which represent
candidate PAI regions warranting further investigation.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0143343 
PMCID: PMC4648491
PMID: 26575185  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Int J Mol Sci. 2015 Nov 11;16(11):26964-77. doi: 10.3390/ijms161126004.

Molecular Effects of Irradiation (Cobalt-60) on the Control of Panonychus citri
(Acari: Tetranychidae).

Zhang K(1), Luo L(2), Chen X(3), Hu M(4), Hu Q(5), Gong L(6), Weng Q(7).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Pesticide and Chemical Biology, Ministry of Education of
China, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou 510642, China.
wengweng@scau.edu.cn. (2)Key Laboratory of Pesticide and Chemical Biology,
Ministry of Education of China, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou
510642, China. luolingyan0915@gmail.com. (3)Key Laboratory of Pesticide and
Chemical Biology, Ministry of Education of China, South China Agricultural
University, Guangzhou 510642, China. xtchan@outlook.com. (4)Key Laboratory of
Pesticide and Chemical Biology, Ministry of Education of China, South China
Agricultural University, Guangzhou 510642, China. humy@scau.edu.cn. (5)Key
Laboratory of Pesticide and Chemical Biology, Ministry of Education of China,
South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou 510642, China. hqbscau@126.com.
(6)Key Laboratory of Plant Resource Conservation and Sustainable Utilization,
South China Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou 510650,
China. lianggong@scbg.ac.cn. (7)Key Laboratory of Pesticide and Chemical Biology,
Ministry of Education of China, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou
510642, China. huabao@scau.edu.cn.

The effective dose of irradiation to control pest mites in quarantine has been
studied extensively, but the molecular mechanisms underlying the effects of the
irradiation on mites are largely unknown. In this study, exposure to 400 Gy of γ 
rays had significant (p < 0.05) effects on the adult survival, fecundity and egg 
viability of Panonychus citri. The irradiation caused the degradation of the DNA 
of P. citri adults and damaged the plasma membrane system of the egg, which led
to condensed nucleoli and gathered yolk. Additionally, the transcriptomes and
gene expression profiles between irradiated and non-irradiated mites were
compared, and three digital gene expression libraries were assembled and
analyzed. The differentially expressed genes were putatively involved in
apoptosis, cell death and the cell cycle. Finally, the expression profiles of
some related genes were studied using quantitative real-time PCR. Our study
provides valuable information on the changes in the transcriptome of irradiated
P. citri, which will facilitate a better understanding of the molecular
mechanisms that cause the sterility induced by irradiation.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms161126004 
PMCID: PMC4661862
PMID: 26569230  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2015 Oct;56(11):6747-53. doi: 10.1167/iovs.15-17720.

Expression Profiling of Human Schlemm's Canal Endothelial Cells From Eyes With
and Without Glaucoma.

Cai J(1), Perkumas KM(2), Qin X(3), Hauser MA(4), Stamer WD(5), Liu Y(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular Biology and Anatomy, Georgia Regents University,
Augusta, Georgia, United States. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, Duke University,
Durham, North Carolina, United States. (3)Duke Molecular Physiology Institute,
Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, United States 4Department of Medicine,
Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, United States. (4)Department of
Ophthalmology, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, United States 3Duke
Molecular Physiology Institute, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, United
States 4Department of Medicine, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, United
State. (5)Department of Ophthalmology, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina,
United States 5Department of Biomedical Engineering, Duke University, Durham,
North Carolina, United States. (6)Department of Cellular Biology and Anatomy,
Georgia Regents University, Augusta, Georgia, United States 6James & Jean Culver 
Vision Discovery Institute, Georgia Regents University, Augusta, Georgia, United 
States 7Center for Biotechnology and Genomic Medi.

PURPOSE: Ocular hypertension is a major risk factor for glaucoma and the inner
wall of Schlemm's canal (SC) endothelia participates in the regulation of aqueous
humor outflow resistance. This study aimed to identify differentially expressed
genes in primary cultures of SC cells from glaucoma patients.
METHODS: This study examined SC samples from three glaucoma cases and four
controls. Schlemm's canal cells were isolated from eight different postmortem
human eyes. Total RNA was extracted, labeled, and hybridized to Illumina
HumanWG-6 BeadChips containing probes for approximately 47,000 human transcripts.
After extracting the data using Illumina GenomeStudio software, the data were
normalized and analyzed using the R package limma in Bioconductor. Using Protein 
ANalysis THrough Evolutionary Relationships (PANTHER) software, gene ontology
analysis of highly expressed genes was executed in controls and glaucoma groups
separately. Pathway analysis was performed with differentially expressed genes
using WebGestalt (WEB-based GEne SeT AnaLysis Toolkit). Selected genes were
validated using droplet digital PCR (ddPCR).
RESULTS: Gene ontology analysis indicated similar functional categories in cases 
and controls. Differential analysis identified a total of 113 genes with at least
2-fold expression changes in cases. Pathway analysis indicated significant
enrichment of genes in cell adhesion, heparin binding, glycosaminoglycan binding,
filopodium, and extracellular matrix remodeling. Eighteen selected genes with
differential expression were successfully validated using ddPCR.
CONCLUSIONS: This study represents the first genome-wide expression study of
human primary SC cells from glaucoma patients and provides a potential list of
targets regulating SC cell stiffness and pore formation, eventually the outflow
resistance in glaucoma individuals.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.15-17720 
PMCID: PMC4614909
PMID: 26567786  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Plant Sci. 2016 Jan;242:342-50. doi: 10.1016/j.plantsci.2015.08.015. Epub 2015
Aug 28.

Genomic-assisted phylogenetic analysis and marker development for next generation
soybean cyst nematode resistance breeding.

Kadam S(1), Vuong TD(2), Qiu D(3), Meinhardt CG(4), Song L(5), Deshmukh R(6),
Patil G(7), Wan J(8), Valliyodan B(9), Scaboo AM(10), Shannon JG(11), Nguyen
HT(12).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Plant Sciences and National Center for Soybean Biotechnology
(NCSB), University of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65211, USA. Electronic address:
kadamsu@missouri.edu. (2)Division of Plant Sciences and National Center for
Soybean Biotechnology (NCSB), University of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65211, USA.
Electronic address: vuongt@missouri.edu. (3)Division of Plant Sciences and
National Center for Soybean Biotechnology (NCSB), University of Missouri,
Columbia, MO 65211, USA. Electronic address: qiud@missouri.edu. (4)Division of
Plant Sciences and National Center for Soybean Biotechnology (NCSB), University
of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65211, USA. Electronic address:
meinhardtc@missouri.edu. (5)Division of Plant Sciences and National Center for
Soybean Biotechnology (NCSB), University of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65211, USA.
Electronic address: songli@missouri.edu. (6)Division of Plant Sciences and
National Center for Soybean Biotechnology (NCSB), University of Missouri,
Columbia, MO 65211, USA. Electronic address: deshmukhr@missouri.edu. (7)Division 
of Plant Sciences and National Center for Soybean Biotechnology (NCSB),
University of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65211, USA. Electronic address:
patilg@missouri.edu. (8)Division of Plant Sciences and National Center for
Soybean Biotechnology (NCSB), University of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65211, USA.
Electronic address: wanj@missouri.edu. (9)Division of Plant Sciences and National
Center for Soybean Biotechnology (NCSB), University of Missouri, Columbia, MO
65211, USA. Electronic address: valliyodanb@missouri.edu. (10)Division of Plant
Sciences and National Center for Soybean Biotechnology (NCSB), University of
Missouri, Columbia, MO 65211, USA. Electronic address: scabooa@missouri.edu.
(11)Division of Plant Sciences and NCSB, University of Missouri, Portageville, MO
63873, USA. Electronic address: shannong@missouri.edu. (12)Division of Plant
Sciences and National Center for Soybean Biotechnology (NCSB), University of
Missouri, Columbia, MO 65211, USA. Electronic address: nguyenhenry@missouri.edu.

Soybean cyst nematode (SCN, Heterodera glycines Ichinohe) is a serious soybean
pest. The use of resistant cultivars is an effective approach for preventing
yield loss. In this study, 19,652 publicly available soybean accessions that were
previously genotyped with the SoySNP50K iSelect BeadChip were used to evaluate
the phylogenetic diversity of SCN resistance genes Rhg1 and Rhg4 in an attempt to
identify novel sources of resistance. The sequence information of soybean lines
was utilized to develop KASPar (KBioscience Competitive Allele-Specific PCR)
assays from single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of Rhg1, Rhg4, and other novel
quantitative trait loci (QTL). These markers were used to genotype a diverse set 
of 95 soybean germplasm lines and three recombinant inbred line (RIL)
populations. SNP markers from the Rhg1 gene were able to differentiate copy
number variation (CNV), such as resistant-high copy (PI 88788-type), low copy
(Peking-type), and susceptible-single copy (Williams 82) numbers. Similarly,
markers for the Rhg4 gene were able to detect Peking-type (resistance) genotypes.
The phylogenetic information of SCN resistance loci from a large set of soybean
accessions and the gene/QTL specific markers that were developed in this study
will accelerate SCN resistance breeding programs.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plantsci.2015.08.015 
PMID: 26566850  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Expert Rev Mol Diagn. 2015;15(12):1589-603. doi: 10.1586/14737159.2015.1105133.
Epub 2015 Nov 13.

Transcriptomics in cancer diagnostics: developments in technology, clinical
research and commercialization.

Sager M(1,)(2), Yeat NC(2,)(3), Pajaro-Van der Stadt S(1,)(2), Lin C(2,)(3), Ren 
Q(2,)(4), Lin J(2).

Author information: 
(1)a College of Arts and Sciences , Washington University in St. Louis , St.
Louis , MO , USA. (2)b Rare Genomics Institute , Bethesda , MD , USA. (3)c School
of Medicine , Washington University in St. Louis , St. Louis , MO , USA. (4)d
Whiting School of Engineering , Johns Hopkins University , Baltimore , MD , USA.

Transcriptomic technologies are evolving to diagnose cancer earlier and more
accurately to provide greater predictive and prognostic utility to oncologists
and patients. Digital techniques such as RNA sequencing are replacing
still-imaging techniques to provide more detailed analysis of the transcriptome
and aberrant expression that causes oncogenesis, while companion diagnostics are 
developing to determine the likely effectiveness of targeted treatments. This
article examines recent advancements in molecular profiling research and
technology as applied to cancer diagnosis, clinical applications and predictions 
for the future of personalized medicine in oncology.

DOI: 10.1586/14737159.2015.1105133 
PMID: 26565429  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Hum Genet. 2016 Jan;135(1):61-8. doi: 10.1007/s00439-015-1611-0. Epub 2015 Nov
12.

Detection of low-prevalence somatic TSC2 mutations in sporadic pulmonary
lymphangioleiomyomatosis tissues by deep sequencing.

Fujita A(1), Ando K(2), Kobayashi E(2), Mitani K(3), Okudera K(4), Nakashima
M(1), Miyatake S(1), Tsurusaki Y(1), Saitsu H(1), Seyama K(2), Miyake N(5),
Matsumoto N(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Genetics, Yokohama City University Graduate School of
Medicine, 3-9 Fukuura, Kanazawa-ku, Yokohama, 236-0004, Japan. (2)Division of
Respiratory Medicine, Juntendo University Faculty of Medicine and Graduate School
of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. (3)Division of Human Pathology, Juntendo University
Faculty of Medicine and Graduate School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. (4)Department 
of Pathology, Yokohama City University Graduate School of Medicine Yokohama,
Yokohama, Japan. (5)Department of Human Genetics, Yokohama City University
Graduate School of Medicine, 3-9 Fukuura, Kanazawa-ku, Yokohama, 236-0004, Japan.
nmiyake@yokohama-cu.ac.jp. (6)Department of Human Genetics, Yokohama City
University Graduate School of Medicine, 3-9 Fukuura, Kanazawa-ku, Yokohama,
236-0004, Japan. naomat@yokohama-cu.ac.jp.

Lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM) (MIM #606690) is a rare lung disorder leading to
respiratory failure associated with progressive cystic destruction due to the
proliferation and infiltration of abnormal smooth muscle-like cells (LAM cells). 
LAM can occur alone (sporadic LAM, S-LAM) or combined with tuberous sclerosis
complex (TSC-LAM). TSC is caused by a germline heterozygous mutation in either
TSC1 or TSC2, and TSC-LAM is thought to occur as a result of a somatic mutation
(second hit) in addition to a germline mutation in TSC1 or TSC2 (first hit).
S-LAM is also thought to occur under the two-hit model involving a somatic
mutation and/or loss of heterozygosity in TSC2. To identify TSC1 or TSC2 changes 
in S-LAM patients, the two genes were analyzed by deep next-generation sequencing
(NGS) using genomic DNA from blood leukocytes (n = 9), LAM tissue from lung
(n = 7), LAM cultured cells (n = 4), or LAM cell clusters (n = 1). We identified 
nine somatic mutations in six of nine S-LAM patients (67 %) with mutant allele
frequencies of 1.7-46.2 %. Three of these six patients (50 %) showed two
different TSC2 mutations with allele frequencies of 1.7-28.7 %. Furthermore, at
least five mutations with low prevalence (<20 % of allele frequency) were
confirmed by droplet digital PCR. As LAM tissues are likely to be composed of
heterogeneous cell populations, mutant allele frequencies can be low. Our results
confirm the consistent finding of TSC2 mutations in LAM samples, and highlight
the benefit of laser capture microdissection and in-depth allele analyses for
detection, such as NGS.

DOI: 10.1007/s00439-015-1611-0 
PMID: 26563443  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. PLoS One. 2015 Nov 12;10(11):e0142572. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0142572.
eCollection 2015.

Performance of Droplet Digital PCR in Non-Invasive Fetal RHD Genotyping -
Comparison with a Routine Real-Time PCR Based Approach.

Svobodová I(1), Pazourková E(2), Hořínek A(1), Novotná M(3), Calda P(3),
Korabečná M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Biology and Medical Genetics, First Faculty of Medicine, Charles
University in Prague and General Faculty Hospital in Prague, Czech Republic.
(2)Department of Nephrology, First Faculty of Medicine, Charles University in
Prague and General Faculty Hospital in Prague, Czech Republic. (3)Department of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, First Faculty of Medicine and General Faculty Hospital
in Prague, Charles University in Prague, Czech Republic.

Detection and characterization of circulating cell-free fetal DNA (cffDNA) from
maternal circulation requires an extremely sensitive and precise method due to
very low cffDNA concentration. In our study, droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) was
implemented for fetal RHD genotyping from maternal plasma to compare this new
quantification alternative with real-time PCR (qPCR) as a golden standard for
quantitative analysis of cffDNA. In the first stage of study, a DNA
quantification standard was used. Clinical samples, including 10 non-pregnant and
35 pregnant women, were analyzed as a next step. Both methods' performance
parameters-standard curve linearity, detection limit and measurement
precision-were evaluated. ddPCR in comparison with qPCR has demonstrated
sufficient sensitivity for analysing of cffDNA and determination of fetal RhD
status from maternal circulation, results of both methods strongly correlated.
Despite the more demanding workflow, ddPCR was found to be slightly more precise 
technology, as evaluated using quantitative standard. Regarding the clinical
samples, the precision of both methods equalized with decreasing concentrations
of tested DNA samples. In case of cffDNA with very low concentrations, variance
parameters of both techniques were comparable. Detected levels of fetal cfDNA in 
maternal plasma were slightly higher than expected and correlated significantly
with gestational age as measured by both methods (ddPCR r = 0.459; qPCR r =
0.438).

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0142572 
PMCID: PMC4642940
PMID: 26562517  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. PLoS One. 2015 Nov 12;10(11):e0142751. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0142751.
eCollection 2015.

Development of Lentivirus-Based Reference Materials for Ebola Virus Nucleic Acid 
Amplification Technology-Based Assays.

Mattiuzzo G(1), Ashall J(1), Doris KS(1), MacLellan-Gibson K(1), Nicolson C(1),
Wilkinson DE(1), Harvey R(1), Almond N(1), Anderson R(1), Efstathiou S(1), Minor 
PD(1), Page M(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Biological Standards and Controls-MHRA, South
Mimms-Potters Bar, United Kingdom.

The 2013-present Ebola virus outbreak in Western Africa has prompted the
production of many diagnostic assays, mostly based on nucleic acid amplification 
technologies (NAT). The calibration and performance assessment of established
assays and those under evaluation requires reference materials that can be used
in parallel with the clinical sample to standardise or control for every step of 
the procedure, from extraction to the final qualitative/quantitative result. We
have developed safe and stable Ebola virus RNA reference materials by
encapsidating anti sense viral RNA into HIV-1-like particles. The lentiviral
particles are replication-deficient and non-infectious due to the lack of HIV-1
genes and Envelope protein. Ebola virus genes were subcloned for encapsidation
into two lentiviral preparations, one containing NP-VP35-GP and the other VP40
and L RNA. Each reference material was formulated as a high-titre standard for
use as a calibrator for secondary or internal standards, and a 10,000-fold lower 
titre preparation to serve as an in-run control. The preparations have been
freeze-dried to maximise stability. These HIV-Ebola virus RNA reference materials
were suitable for use with in-house and commercial quantitative RT-PCR assays and
with digital RT-PCR. The HIV-Ebola virus RNA reference materials are stable at up
to 37°C for two weeks, allowing the shipment of the material worldwide at ambient
temperature. These results support further evaluation of the HIV-Ebola virus RNA 
reference materials as part of an International collaborative study for the
establishment of the 1st International Standard for Ebola virus RNA.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0142751 
PMCID: PMC4642882
PMID: 26562415  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. PLoS One. 2015 Nov 11;10(11):e0142729. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0142729.
eCollection 2015.

A Non-Invasive Droplet Digital PCR (ddPCR) Assay to Detect Paternal CFTR
Mutations in the Cell-Free Fetal DNA (cffDNA) of Three Pregnancies at Risk of
Cystic Fibrosis via Compound Heterozygosity.

Debrand E(1), Lykoudi A(1,)(2), Bradshaw E(1), Allen SK(1).

Author information: 
(1)West Midlands Regional Genetics Laboratory, Birmingham Women's NHS Foundation 
Trust, Mindelsohn Way, Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15 2TG, United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Medical Genetics, Athens University, Agia Sofia Children's
Hospital, 11527, Athens, Greece.

INTRODUCTION: Non-invasive prenatal diagnosis (NIPD) makes use of cell-free fetal
DNA (cffDNA) in the mother's bloodstream as an alternative to invasive sampling
methods such as amniocentesis or CVS, which carry a 0.5-1% risk of fetal loss. We
describe a droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) assay designed to inform the testing
options for couples whose offspring are at risk of suffering from cystic fibrosis
via compound heterozygosity. By detecting the presence or absence of the paternal
mutation in the cffDNA, it is possible to predict whether the fetus will be an
unaffected carrier (absence) or whether further invasive testing is indicated
(presence).
METHODS: We selected a family in which the parents were known to carry different 
mutated CFTR alleles as our test system. NIPD was performed for three of their
pregnancies during the first trimester (at around 11-12 weeks of gestation).
Taqman probes were designed against an amplicon in exon 11 of the CFTR gene, to
quantify the proportion of mutant (ΔF508-MUT; FAM) and normal (ΔF508-NOR; VIC)
alleles at position c.1521_1523 of the CFTR gene.
DISCUSSION: The assay correctly and unambiguously recognized the ΔF508-MUT CFTR
allele in the cffDNA of all three proband fetuses and none of the six unaffected 
control fetuses. In conclusion, the Bio-Rad QX100 was found to be a
cost-effective and technically undemanding platform for designing bespoke NIPD
assays.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0142729 
PMCID: PMC4641687
PMID: 26561302  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Biomed Pap Med Fac Univ Palacky Olomouc Czech Repub. 2016 Mar;160(1):64-9. doi:
10.5507/bp.2015.057. Epub 2015 Nov 10.

A novel genetic- and cell-based tool for assessing the efficacy and toxicity of
anticancer drugs in vitro.

Kluwe L(1), Jiang W(2), Alster I(2), Hanken H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Tumor Biology and Regenerative Medicine, Department of Oral and
Maxillofacial Surgery, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg,
Germany. (2)Department of Neurology, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf,
Hamburg, Germany.

AIMS: To develop an in vitro tool for assessing the efficacy and toxicity of
anticancer drugs using mixed culture containing both tumor and non-tumor cells.
Such in vitro tool should have high application potential in drug-screening and
personalized cancer care.
METHODS: Fibroblasts were spiked as non-tumor cells into tumor cells of an
established line. The mixed culture was treated with a test drug at various
concentrations. After the treatment, DNA was prepared directly from the survived 
adhesive cells in the wells of the 96-well plates using a simple and inexpensive 
method, and subjected to digital PCR for measuring relative copy numbers of a
target gene NF1 to that of a reference gene RPP30. The NF1 gene is known to be
heterozygously deleted in these tumor cells while the RPP30 gene has two copies
in both tumor and non-tumor cells. Using the NF1/ RPP30 ratios resulting from the
dual digital PCR assay, the proportions of tumor cells were calculated for each
drug concentration.
RESULTS: Digital PCR confirmed that the tumor cells have only one copy of the NF1
gene while the non-tumor fibroblasts have two copies. By contrast, both types of 
cells have two copies of the reference gene RPP30. Using the ratio of the two
genes, we successfully calculated the proportion of tumor cells which decreased
as the dose of the test drug increased up to a certain concentration, indicating 
that the drug is more effective for the tumor cells than for the non-tumor cells 
in this dose-range. At the highest dose, we observed a slight increase in the
proportion of tumor cells, likely reflecting the toxic effect of the drug on both
tumor and non-tumor cells.
CONCLUSION: This pilot study demonstrated the feasibility of a genetic- and
cell-based tool for testing efficacy and toxicity of anticancer drugs in vitro.
The promising results suggest that additional efforts are merited, for further
development since such a tool will likely have high application potential (1) in 
drug discovery where it enables simultaneously assessing therapeutic effect on
target cells and toxic effect on non-target cells, and (2) in personalized
adjuvant chemotherapy where multiple drugs can be tested in primary cultures
derived from surgically removed tumor.

DOI: 10.5507/bp.2015.057 
PMID: 26558359  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:392872. doi: 10.1155/2015/392872. Epub 2015 Oct 15.

Current and new approaches in GMO detection: challenges and solutions.

Fraiture MA(1), Herman P(2), Taverniers I(3), De Loose M(4), Deforce D(5),
Roosens NH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Platform of Biotechnology and Molecular Biology (PBB) and Biosafety and
Biotechnology Unit (SBB), Scientific Institute of Public Health (WIV-ISP), J.
Wytsmanstraat 14, 1050 Brussels, Belgium ; Technology and Food Sciences Unit,
Institute for Agricultural and Fisheries Research (ILVO), Burg. Van
Gansberghelaan 115, Bus 1, 9820 Merelbeke, Belgium ; Laboratory of Pharmaceutical
Biotechnology, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Ghent University,
Ottergemsesteenweg 460, 9000 Ghent, Belgium. (2)Platform of Biotechnology and
Molecular Biology (PBB) and Biosafety and Biotechnology Unit (SBB), Scientific
Institute of Public Health (WIV-ISP), J. Wytsmanstraat 14, 1050 Brussels,
Belgium. (3)Technology and Food Sciences Unit, Institute for Agricultural and
Fisheries Research (ILVO), Burg. Van Gansberghelaan 115, Bus 1, 9820 Merelbeke,
Belgium. (4)Technology and Food Sciences Unit, Institute for Agricultural and
Fisheries Research (ILVO), Burg. Van Gansberghelaan 115, Bus 1, 9820 Merelbeke,
Belgium ; Department of Plant Biotechnology and Bioinformatics, Faculty of
Sciences, Ghent University, Technologiepark 927, 9052 Ghent, Belgium.
(5)Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Faculty of Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Ghent University, Ottergemsesteenweg 460, 9000 Ghent, Belgium.

In many countries, genetically modified organisms (GMO) legislations have been
established in order to guarantee the traceability of food/feed products on the
market and to protect the consumer freedom of choice. Therefore, several GMO
detection strategies, mainly based on DNA, have been developed to implement these
legislations. Due to its numerous advantages, the quantitative PCR (qPCR) is the 
method of choice for the enforcement laboratories in GMO routine analysis.
However, given the increasing number and diversity of GMO developed and put on
the market around the world, some technical hurdles could be encountered with the
qPCR technology, mainly owing to its inherent properties. To address these
challenges, alternative GMO detection methods have been developed, allowing
faster detections of single GM target (e.g., loop-mediated isothermal
amplification), simultaneous detections of multiple GM targets (e.g., PCR
capillary gel electrophoresis, microarray, and Luminex), more accurate
quantification of GM targets (e.g., digital PCR), or characterization of
partially known (e.g., DNA walking and Next Generation Sequencing (NGS)) or
unknown (e.g., NGS) GMO. The benefits and drawbacks of these methods are
discussed in this review.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/392872 
PMCID: PMC4624882
PMID: 26550567  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Hum Mutat. 2016 Feb;37(2):160-4. doi: 10.1002/humu.22929. Epub 2015 Dec 2.

Mechanisms for the Generation of Two Quadruplications Associated with Split-Hand 
Malformation.

Gu S(1), Posey JE(1), Yuan B(1), Carvalho CM(1), Luk HM(2), Erikson K(3), Lo
IF(2), Leung GK(4,)(5), Pickering CR(3), Chung BH(4,)(5), Lupski
JR(1,)(6,)(7,)(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular & Human Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston,
Texas, 77030. (2)Clinical Genetic Service, Department of Health, Hong Kong,
China. (3)Department of Head and Neck Surgery, The University of Texas MD
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas, 77030. (4)Department of Obstetrics &
Gynaecology, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Hong
Kong, China. (5)Department of Paediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, Queen Mary
Hospital, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Hong
Kong, China. (6)Department of Pediatrics, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston,
Texas, 77030. (7)Human Genome Sequencing Center, Baylor College of Medicine,
Houston, Texas, 77030. (8)Texas Children's Hospital, Houston, Texas, 77030.

Germline copy-number variants (CNVs) involving quadruplications are rare and the 
mechanisms generating them are largely unknown. Previously, we reported a 20-week
gestation fetus with split-hand malformation; clinical microarray detected two
maternally inherited triplications separated by a copy-number neutral region at
17p13.3, involving BHLHA9 and part of YWHAE. Here, we describe an 18-month-old
male sibling of the previously described fetus with split-hand malformation.
Custom high-density microarray and digital droplet PCR revealed the copy-number
gains were actually quadruplications in the mother, the fetus, and her later born
son. This quadruplication-normal-quadruplication pattern was shown to be expanded
from the triplication-normal-triplication CNV at the same loci in the maternal
grandmother. We mapped two breakpoint junctions and demonstrated that both are
mediated by Alu repetitive elements and identical in these four individuals. We
propose a three-step process combining Alu-mediated replicative-repair-based
mechanism(s) and intergenerational, intrachromosomal nonallelic homologous
recombination to generate the quadruplications in this family.

© 2015 WILEY PERIODICALS, INC.

DOI: 10.1002/humu.22929 
PMCID: PMC4718869
PMID: 26549411  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


601. J Clin Pathol. 2016 May;69(5):398-402. doi: 10.1136/jclinpath-2015-203345. Epub
2015 Nov 4.

Automated PCR detection of BRAF mutations in colorectal adenocarcinoma: a
diagnostic test accuracy study.

Colling R(1), Wang LM(1), Soilleux E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular Pathology, Oxford University Hospitals NHS Trust,
Oxford, UK. (2)Department of Cellular Pathology, Oxford University Hospitals NHS 
Trust, Oxford, UK Nuffield Division of Clinical Laboratory Sciences, University
of Oxford, Oxford, UK.

BACKGROUND: Testing for BRAF mutations in colorectal carcinoma (CRC) is important
in the screening pathway for Lynch syndrome and is of prognostic value to guide
management. This is a diagnostic accuracy study of the Idylla system, a novel and
automated alternative PCR system.
METHODS: 100 consecutive formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded CRC resection cases
were tested for BRAF mutations using the Idylla automated platform and compared
with standard (Cobas) PCR.
RESULTS: The sensitivity of the Idylla BRAF test was 100% and the specificity was
96%. Only one discordant Idylla positive/standard PCR negative result occurred
and on Droplet Digital PCR demonstrated a mutation not identified by traditional 
PCR in this case.
CONCLUSION: This study has validated the Idylla system for BRAF testing in CRC
and demonstrated a possibly greater sensitivity, in addition to cost
effectiveness and shorter turnaround time, when compared with standard PCR.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/jclinpath-2015-203345 
PMID: 26537294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Oncotarget. 2015 Dec 8;6(39):42008-18. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.5788.

Circulating tumor DNA to monitor treatment response and detect acquired
resistance in patients with metastatic melanoma.

Gray ES(1), Rizos H(2,)(3), Reid AL(1), Boyd SC(2,)(3), Pereira MR(1), Lo J(4),
Tembe V(5), Freeman J(1), Lee JH(5,)(6), Scolyer RA(7,)(3), Siew K(8), Lomma
C(8), Cooper A(6), Khattak MA(9,)(10), Meniawy TM(8,)(10), Long GV(11,)(3),
Carlino MS(6,)(3), Millward M(8,)(10), Ziman M(1,)(12).

Author information: 
(1)School of Medical Sciences, Edith Cowan University, Joondalup, Western
Australia, Australia. (2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine
and Health Sciences, Macquarie University, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(3)Melanoma Institute Australia, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. (4)School of
Engineering, Edith Cowan University, Joondalup, Western Australia, Australia.
(5)Centre for Cancer Research, The University of Sydney at Westmead Millennium
Institute, Westmead Hospital, Westmead, New South Wales, Australia. (6)Department
of Medical Oncology, Crown Princess Mary Cancer Centre, Westmead Hospital,
Westmead, New South Wales, Australia. (7)Disciplines of Pathology, The University
of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. (8)Department of Medical Oncology,
Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital, Nedlands, Western Australia, Australia.
(9)Department of Medical Oncology, Fiona Stanley Hospital, Murdoch, Western
Australia, Australia. (10)School of Medicine and Pharmacology, The University of 
Western Australia, Crawley, Western Australia, Australia. (11)Medicine, Sydney
Medical School, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(12)School of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, The University of Western
Australia, Crawley, Western Australia, Australia.

Repeat tumor biopsies to study genomic changes during therapy are difficult,
invasive and data are confounded by tumoral heterogeneity. The analysis of
circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) can provide a non-invasive approach to assess
prognosis and the genetic evolution of tumors in response to therapy.
Mutation-specific droplet digital PCR was used to measure plasma concentrations
of oncogenic BRAF and NRAS variants in 48 patients with advanced metastatic
melanoma prior to treatment with targeted therapies (vemurafenib, dabrafenib or
dabrafenib/trametinib combination) or immunotherapies (ipilimumab, nivolumab or
pembrolizumab). Baseline ctDNA levels were evaluated relative to treatment
response and progression-free survival (PFS). Tumor-associated ctDNA was detected
in the plasma of 35/48 (73%) patients prior to treatment and lower ctDNA levels
at this time point were significantly associated with response to treatment and
prolonged PFS, irrespective of therapy type. Levels of ctDNA decreased
significantly in patients treated with MAPK inhibitors (p < 0.001) in accordance 
with response to therapy, but this was not apparent in patients receiving
immunotherapies. We show that circulating NRAS mutations, known to confer
resistance to BRAF inhibitors, were detected in 3 of 7 (43%) patients progressing
on kinase inhibitor therapy. Significantly, ctDNA rebound and circulating mutant 
NRAS preceded radiological detection of progressive disease. Our data demonstrate
that ctDNA is a useful biomarker of response to kinase inhibitor therapy and can 
be used to monitor tumor evolution and detect the early appearance of resistance 
effectors.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.5788 
PMCID: PMC4747205
PMID: 26524482  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2016 Jan;408(1):107-21. doi: 10.1007/s00216-015-9107-2. Epub
2015 Oct 31.

Assessment of the real-time PCR and different digital PCR platforms for DNA
quantification.

Pavšič J(1,)(2), Žel J(3), Milavec M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Systems Biology, National Institute of
Biology, Večna pot 111, 1000, Ljubljana, Slovenia. jernej.pavsic@nib.si. (2)Jožef
Stefan International Postgraduate School, Jamova 39, 1000, Ljubljana, Slovenia.
jernej.pavsic@nib.si. (3)Department of Biotechnology and Systems Biology,
National Institute of Biology, Večna pot 111, 1000, Ljubljana, Slovenia.

Digital PCR (dPCR) is beginning to supersede real-time PCR (qPCR) for
quantification of nucleic acids in many different applications. Several
analytical properties of the two most commonly used dPCR platforms, namely the
QX100 system (Bio-Rad) and the 12.765 array of the Biomark system (Fluidigm),
have already been evaluated and compared with those of qPCR. However, to the best
of our knowledge, direct comparison between the three of these platforms using
the same DNA material has not been done, and the 37 K array on the Biomark system
has also not been evaluated in terms of linearity, analytical sensitivity and
limit of quantification. Here, a first assessment of qPCR, the QX100 system and
both arrays of the Biomark system was performed with plasmid and genomic DNA from
human cytomegalovirus. With use of PCR components that alter the efficiency of
qPCR, each dPCR platform demonstrated consistent copy-number estimations, which
indicates the high resilience of dPCR. Two approaches, one considering the total 
reaction volume and the other considering the effective reaction size, were used 
to assess linearity, analytical sensitivity and variability. When the total
reaction volume was considered, the best performance was observed with qPCR,
followed by the QX100 system and the Biomark system. In contrast, when the
effective reaction size was considered, all three platforms showed almost equal
limits of detection and variability. Although dPCR might not always be more
appropriate than qPCR for quantification of low copy numbers, dPCR is a suitable 
method for robust and reproducible quantification of viral DNA, and a promising
technology for the higher-order reference measurement method.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-015-9107-2 
PMCID: PMC4706846
PMID: 26521179  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Pediatr Surg Int. 2016 Feb;32(2):169-74. doi: 10.1007/s00383-015-3829-2. Epub
2015 Oct 27.

The role of the BMP signaling cascade in regulation of stem cell activity
following massive small bowel resection in a rat.

Sukhotnik I(1,)(2), Berkowitz D(3), Dorfman T(4), Halabi S(4,)(5), Pollak Y(4),
Bejar J(6), Bitterman A(5), Coran AG(7).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Intestinal Adaptation and Recovery, The Bruce Rappaport Faculty 
of Medicine, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel.
igor-dr@internet-zahav.net. (2)Department of Pediatric Surgery, Bnai Zion Medical
Center, 47 Golomb St., P.O.B. 4940, 31048, Haifa, Israel.
igor-dr@internet-zahav.net. (3)Department of Gastroenterology, Bnai Zion Medical 
Center, Haifa, Israel. (4)Laboratory of Intestinal Adaptation and Recovery, The
Bruce Rappaport Faculty of Medicine, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology,
Haifa, Israel. (5)Department of Surgery and Emergency Room, Carmel Medical
Center, Haifa, Israel. (6)Department of Pathology, Bnai Zion Medical Center,
Haifa, Israel. (7)Section of Pediatric Surgery, C.S. Mott Children's Hospital,
University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

PURPOSE: Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) are a group of growth factors that
are implicated in intestinal growth, morphogenesis, differentiation, and
homeostasis. The role of the BMP signaling cascade in stimulation of cell
proliferation after massive small bowel resection is unknown. The purpose of this
study was to evaluate the role of BMP signaling during intestinal adaptation in a
rat model of short bowel syndrome (SBS).
METHODS: Male rats were divided into two groups: Sham rats underwent bowel
transection and SBS rats underwent a 75 % bowel resection. Parameters of
intestinal adaptation, enterocyte proliferation and apoptosis were determined
2 weeks after operation. Illumina's Digital Gene Expression analysis was used to 
determine the BMP signaling gene expression profiling. BMP-related genes and
protein expression were determined using real-time PCR, Western blotting and
immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: From the total number of 20,000 probes, 8 genes related to BMP signaling
were investigated. From these genes, five genes were found to be up-regulated in 
jejunum (BMP1-10 %, BMP2-twofold increase, BMP3-10 %, BMP2R-12 % and STAT3-28 %) 
and four genes to be up-regulated in ileum (BMP1-16 %, BMP2-27 %, BMP3-10 %, and 
STAT3-20 %) in SBS vs sham animals with a relative change in gene expression
level of 10 % or more. SBS rats also demonstrated a significant increase in BMP2 
and STAT3 mRNA and protein levels (determined by real-time PCR and Western blot) 
compared to control animals.
CONCLUSION: Two weeks following massive bowel resection in rats, the BMP
signaling pathway is stimulated. BMP signaling may serve as an important mediator
of reciprocal interactions between the epithelium and the underlying mesenchymal 
stroma during intestinal adaptation following massive bowel resection in a rat.

DOI: 10.1007/s00383-015-3829-2 
PMID: 26503340  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Clin Cancer Res. 2016 Mar 1;22(5):1130-7. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-1534.
Epub 2015 Oct 23.

Sensitive Detection of Mono- and Polyclonal ESR1 Mutations in Primary Tumors,
Metastatic Lesions, and Cell-Free DNA of Breast Cancer Patients.

Wang P(1), Bahreini A(2), Gyanchandani R(3), Lucas PC(4), Hartmaier RJ(3),
Watters RJ(3), Jonnalagadda AR(5), Trejo Bittar HE(4), Berg A(4), Hamilton RL(4),
Kurland BF(6), Weiss KR(7), Mathew A(8), Leone JP(8), Davidson NE(9), Nikiforova 
MN(4), Brufsky AM(9), Ambros TF(8), Stern AM(10), Puhalla SL(9), Lee AV(11),
Oesterreich S(12).

Author information: 
(1)School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing, People's Republic of China. 
Womens Cancer Research Center, Magee-Women Research Institute, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania. (2)Womens Cancer Research Center, Magee-Women Research Institute,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Department of Human Genetics, University of Pittsburgh,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. (3)Womens Cancer Research Center, Magee-Women Research 
Institute, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Department of Pharmacology and Chemical
Biology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. (4)Department of
Pathology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. (5)Womens Cancer
Research Center, Magee-Women Research Institute, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
(6)Department of Biostatistics, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania. (7)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, University of Pittsburgh
Medical Center (UPMC) Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. (8)Department of
Medicine, Division of Hematology/Oncology, University of Pittsburgh Cancer
Institute and UPMC Cancer Center, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. (9)Womens Cancer
Research Center, Magee-Women Research Institute, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology/Oncology, University of Pittsburgh
Cancer Institute and UPMC Cancer Center, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. (10)Drug
Discovery Institute, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
(11)Womens Cancer Research Center, Magee-Women Research Institute, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania. Department of Human Genetics, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania. Department of Pharmacology and Chemical Biology, University of
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. oesterreichs@upmc.edu leeav@upmc.edu.
(12)Womens Cancer Research Center, Magee-Women Research Institute, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania. Department of Pharmacology and Chemical Biology, University of
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. oesterreichs@upmc.edu leeav@upmc.edu.

Comment in
    Clin Cancer Res. 2016 Mar 1;22(5):1034-6.

PURPOSE: Given the clinical relevance of ESR1 mutations as potential drivers of
resistance to endocrine therapy, this study used sensitive detection methods to
determine the frequency of ESR1 mutations in primary and metastatic breast
cancer, and in cell-free DNA (cfDNA).
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Six ESR1 mutations (K303R, S463P, Y537C, Y537N, Y537S,
D538G) were assessed by digital droplet PCR (ddPCR), with lower limits of
detection of 0.05% to 0.16%, in primary tumors (n = 43), bone (n = 12) and brain 
metastases (n = 38), and cfDNA (n = 29). Correlations between ESR1 mutations in
metastatic lesions and single (1 patient) or serial blood draws (4 patients) were
assessed.
RESULTS: ESR1 mutations were detected for D538G (n = 13), Y537S (n = 3), and
Y537C (n = 1), and not for K303R, S463P, or Y537N. Mutation rates were 7.0% (3/43
primary tumors), 9.1% (1/11 bone metastases), 12.5% (3/24 brain metastases), and 
24.1% (7/29 cfDNA). Two patients showed polyclonal disease with more than one
ESR1 mutation. Mutation allele frequencies were 0.07% to 0.2% in primary tumors, 
1.4% in bone metastases, 34.3% to 44.9% in brain metastases, and 0.2% to 13.7% in
cfDNA. In cases with both cfDNA and metastatic samples (n = 5), mutations were
detected in both (n = 3) or in cfDNA only (n = 2). Treatment was associated with 
changes in ESR1 mutation detection and allele frequency.
CONCLUSIONS: ESR1 mutations were detected at very low allele frequencies in some 
primary breast cancers, and at high allele frequency in metastases, suggesting
that in some tumors rare ESR1-mutant clones are enriched by endocrine therapy.
Further studies should address whether sensitive detection of ESR1 mutations in
primary breast cancer and in serial blood draws may be predictive for development
of resistant disease. See related commentary by Gu and Fuqua, p. 1034.

©2015 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-1534 
PMCID: PMC4775406 [Available on 2017-03-01]
PMID: 26500237  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Oncotarget. 2015 Nov 24;6(37):40026-35. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.5432.

PIK3CA mutation detection in metastatic biliary cancer using cell-free DNA.

Kim ST(1), Lira M(2), Deng S(2), Lee S(1), Park YS(1), Lim HY(1), Kang WK(1), Mao
M(3), Heo JS(4), Kwon W(4), Jang KT(5), Lee J(1,)(6), Park JO(1,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Department of Medicine, Samsung Medical
Center, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (2)Precision
Medicine, Oncology Research Unit, Pfizer, Inc., San Diego, CA, USA. (3)WuXi
AppTec, Shanghai, China. (4)Department of Surgery, Samsung Medical Center,
Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (5)Department of
Pathology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine,
Seoul, Korea. (6)Innovative Cancer Medicine Institute, Samsung Medical Center,
Seoul, Korea.

PIK3CA mutation is considered a good candidate for targeted therapies in cancers,
especially biliary tract cancer (BTC). We evaluated the utility of cell free DNA 
(cfDNA) from serum by using droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) as an alternative source 
for PIK3CA mutation analysis. To identify matching archival tumour specimens from
serum samples of advanced BTC patients, mutation detection using ddPCR with
Bio-Rad's PrimePCR mutation and wild type assays were performed for PIK3CA
p.E542K, p.E545K, and p.H1047R. Thirty-eight patients with metastatic BTC were
enrolled. Only one (BTC 29T) sample (n = 38) was positive for PIK3CA p.E542K and 
another (BTC 27T) for p.H1047R mutation; none was positive for PIK3CA p.E545K.
Matched serum sample (BTC 29P) was positive for PIK3CA p.E542K with 28 mutant
copies detected, corresponding to 48 copies/ml of serum and an allelic prevalence
of 0.3%. Another matched serum sample (BTC 27P) was positive for PIK3CA p.H1047R 
with 10 mutant copies detected, i.e. 18 copies/ml and an allelic frequency of
0.2%. High correlation was noted in the PIK3CA mutation status between tumour
gDNA and serum cfDNA. Low-level PIK3CA mutations were detectable in the serum
indicating the utility of cfDNA as a DNA source to detect cancer-derived
mutations in metastatic biliary cancers.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.5432 
PMCID: PMC4741877
PMID: 26498688  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. BMC Cancer. 2015 Oct 24;15:797. doi: 10.1186/s12885-015-1779-7.

Circulating tumor cells (Ctc) and kras mutant circulating free Dna (cfdna)
detection in peripheral blood as biomarkers in patients diagnosed with exocrine
pancreatic cancer.

Earl J(1), Garcia-Nieto S(2), Martinez-Avila JC(3), Montans J(4), Sanjuanbenito
A(5), Rodríguez-Garrote M(6), Lisa E(7), Mendía E(8), Lobo E(9), Malats N(10),
Carrato A(11), Guillen-Ponce C(12).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Oncology Department, Ramón y Cajal University Hospital, Carretera de
Colmenar Viejo, KM 9,100, 28034, Madrid, Spain. julie.earl@live.co.uk. (2)Medical
Oncology Department, Ramón y Cajal University Hospital, Carretera de Colmenar
Viejo, KM 9,100, 28034, Madrid, Spain. sandragarcianieto@hotmail.com. (3)Genetic 
and Molecular Epidemiology Group, Spanish Cancer Research Cancer Center, Madrid, 
Spain. jcmartinezavila@gmail.com. (4)Pathology Department, Ramón y Cajal
University Hospital, Madrid, Spain. jmontans@anatomia.e.telefonica.net.
(5)Surgery Department, Ramón y Cajal University Hospital, Madrid, Spain.
asanjuanbenito@gmail.com. (6)Medical Oncology Department, Ramón y Cajal
University Hospital, Carretera de Colmenar Viejo, KM 9,100, 28034, Madrid, Spain.
mercedes3110@yahoo.es. (7)Surgery Department, Ramón y Cajal University Hospital, 
Madrid, Spain. edulisa@hotmail.com. (8)Surgery Department, Ramón y Cajal
University Hospital, Madrid, Spain. mendiaelena@hotmail.com. (9)Surgery
Department, Ramón y Cajal University Hospital, Madrid, Spain.
eduardo.lobo@salud.madrid.org. (10)Genetic and Molecular Epidemiology Group,
Spanish Cancer Research Cancer Center, Madrid, Spain. nmalats@cnio.es.
(11)Medical Oncology Department, Ramón y Cajal University Hospital, Carretera de 
Colmenar Viejo, KM 9,100, 28034, Madrid, Spain. acarrato@telefonica.net.
(12)Medical Oncology Department, Ramón y Cajal University Hospital, Carretera de 
Colmenar Viejo, KM 9,100, 28034, Madrid, Spain. carmenguillenponce@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Pancreatic cancer remains one of the most difficult cancers to treat 
with the poorest prognosis. The key to improving survival rates in this disease
is early detection and monitoring of disseminated and residual disease. However, 
this is hindered due to lack reliable diagnostic and predictive markers which
mean that the majority of patients succumb to their condition within a few
months.
METHODS: We present a pilot study of the detection circulating free DNA (cfDNA)
combined with tumor specific mutation detection by digital PCR as a novel
minimally invasive biomarker in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). This was
compared to the detection of CTC by the CellSearch® system and a novel CTC
enrichment strategy based on CD45 positive cell depletion. The aim of the study
was to assess tumor specific DNA detection in plasma and CTC detection as
prognostic markers in PDAC.
RESULTS: We detected KRAS mutant cfDNA in 26% of patients of all stages and this 
correlated strongly with Overall Survival (OS), 60 days (95% CI: 19-317) for KRAS
mutation positive vs 772 days for KRAS mutation negative (95% CI: 416-1127).
Although, the presence of CTC detected by the CellSearch® system did correlate
significantly with OS, 88 days (95% CI: 27-206) CTC positive vs 393 days CTC
negative (95% CI: 284-501), CTC were detected in only 20% of patients, the
majority of which had metastatic disease, whereas KRAS mutant cfDNA was detected 
in patients with both resectable and advanced disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Tumor specific cfDNA detection and CTC detection are promising
markers for the management of patients with PDAC, although there is a need to
validate these results in a larger patient cohort and optimize the detection of
CTC in PDAC by applying the appropriate markers for their detection.

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-015-1779-7 
PMCID: PMC4619983
PMID: 26498594  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Oncotarget. 2015 Nov 24;6(37):39855-64. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.5627.

Rs488087 single nucleotide polymorphism as predictive risk factor for pancreatic 
cancers.

Martinez E(1,)(2), Silvy F(1,)(2), Fina F(1,)(2,)(3), Bartoli M(4), Krahn
M(4,)(5), Barlesi F(1,)(2,)(6), Figarella-Branger D(1,)(2,)(7), Iovanna
J(8,)(9,)(10), Laugier R(11), Ouaissi M(1,)(2,)(12), Lombardo D(1,)(2), Mas
E(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Aix-Marseille Université, CRO2, Centre de Recherche en Oncologie biologique et
Oncopharmacologie, F-13005, Marseille, France. (2)INSERM, UMR_S 911, F-13005,
Marseille, France. (3)LBM- Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Marseille, Hôpital
Nord, Service de Transfert d'Oncologie Biologique, F-13015, Marseille, France.
(4)Aix-Marseille Université, INSERM, UMR 910, F-13005, Marseille, France.
(5)Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Marseille, Hôpital de la Timone-Enfants,
Département de Génétique Médicale, F-13005, Marseille, France. (6)Assistance
Publique Hôpitaux de Marseille, Hôpital Nord, Service d'Oncologie
Multidisciplinaire & Innovation Thérapeutique, F-13915, Marseille, France.
(7)Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Marseille, Hôpital de la Timone, Service
d'Anatomopathologie, F-13005, Marseille, France. (8)Aix-Marseille Université,
CRCM, Centre de Recherche en Cancérologie de Marseille, F-13009, Marseille,
France. (9)INSERM, UMR_S 1068, F-13009, Marseille, France. (10)CNRS, UMR 7258,
F-13009, Marseille, France. (11)Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Marseille,
Hôpital de la Timone, Service de Gastroentérologie, F-13005, Marseille, France.
(12)Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Marseille, Hôpital de la Timone, Service de
Chirurgie Digestive et Viscérale, F-13005, Marseille, France.

Pancreatic cancer (PC) is a devastating disease progressing asymptomatically
until death within months after diagnosis. Defining at-risk populations should
promote its earlier diagnosis and hence also avoid its development. Considering
the known involvement in pancreatic disease of exon 11 of the bile salt-dependent
lipase (BSDL) gene that encodes variable number of tandem repeat (VNTR)
sequences, we hypothesized upon the existence of a genetic link between
predisposition to PC and mutations in VNTR loci. To test this, BSDL VNTR were
amplified by touchdown-PCR performed on genomic DNA extracted from cancer tissue 
or blood samples from a French patient cohort and amplicons were Sanger
sequenced. A robust method using probes for droplet digital (dd)-PCR was designed
to discriminate the C/C major from C/T or T/T minor genotypes. We report that the
c.1719C > T transition (SNP rs488087) present in BSDL VNTR may be a useful marker
for defining a population at risk of developing PC (occurrence: 63.90% in the PC 
versus 27.30% in the control group). The odds ratio of 4.7 for the T allele was
larger than those already determined for other SNPs suspected to be predictive of
PC. Further studies on tumor pancreatic tissue suggested that a germline T allele
may favor Kras G12R/G12D somatic mutations which represent negative prognostic
factors associated with reduced survival. We propose that the detection of the T 
allele in rs488087 SNP should lead to an in-depth follow-up of patients in whom
an association with other potential risk factors of pancreatic cancer may be
present.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.5627 
PMCID: PMC4741865
PMID: 26498142  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. BMC Genomics. 2015 Oct 23;16:849. doi: 10.1186/s12864-015-2097-9.

Novel method to detect microRNAs using chip-based QuantStudio 3D digital PCR.

Conte D(1), Verri C(2), Borzi C(3), Suatoni P(4), Pastorino U(5), Sozzi G(6),
Fortunato O(7).

Author information: 
(1)Tumor Genomics Unit, Department of Experimental Oncology and Molecular
Medicine, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, via Venezian 1, 20133, 
Milan, Italy. davide.conte@istitutotumori.mi.it. (2)Tumor Genomics Unit,
Department of Experimental Oncology and Molecular Medicine, Fondazione IRCCS
Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, via Venezian 1, 20133, Milan, Italy.
carla.verri@istitutotumori.mi.it. (3)Tumor Genomics Unit, Department of
Experimental Oncology and Molecular Medicine, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale
dei Tumori, via Venezian 1, 20133, Milan, Italy.
cristina.borzi@istitutotumori.mi.it. (4)Thoracic Surgery Unit, Fondazione IRCCS
Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, via Venezian 1, 20133, Milan, Italy.
paola.suatoni@istitutotumori.mi.it. (5)Thoracic Surgery Unit, Fondazione IRCCS
Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, via Venezian 1, 20133, Milan, Italy.
ugo.pastorino@istitutotumori.mi.it. (6)Tumor Genomics Unit, Department of
Experimental Oncology and Molecular Medicine, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale
dei Tumori, via Venezian 1, 20133, Milan, Italy.
gabriella.sozzi@istitutotumori.mi.it. (7)Tumor Genomics Unit, Department of
Experimental Oncology and Molecular Medicine, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale
dei Tumori, via Venezian 1, 20133, Milan, Italy.
orazio.fortunato@istitutotumori.mi.it.

BACKGROUND: Research efforts for the management of cancer, in particular for lung
cancer, are directed to identify new strategies for its early detection.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a new promising class of circulating biomarkers for cancer
detection, but lack of consensus on data normalization methods has affected the
diagnostic potential of circulating miRNAs. There is a growing interest in
techniques that allow an absolute quantification of miRNAs which could be useful 
for early diagnosis. Recently, digital PCR, mainly based on droplets generation, 
emerged as an affordable technology for precise and absolute quantification of
nucleic acids.
RESULTS: In this work, we described a new interesting approach for profiling
circulating miRNAs in plasma samples using a chip-based platform, the QuantStudio
3D digital PCR. The proposed method was validated using synthethic
oligonucleotide at serial dilutions in plasma samples of lung cancer patients and
in lung tissues and cell lines.
CONCLUSION: Given its reproducibility and reliability, our approach could be
potentially applied for the identification and quantification of miRNAs in other 
biological samples such as circulating exosomes or protein complexes. As
chip-digital PCR becomes more established, it would be a robust tool for
quantitative assessment of miRNA copy number for diagnosis of lung cancer and
other diseases.

DOI: 10.1186/s12864-015-2097-9 
PMCID: PMC4619272
PMID: 26493562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Lung Cancer. 2015 Dec;90(3):509-15. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2015.10.004. Epub 2015
Oct 9.

EGFR mutation detection in ctDNA from NSCLC patient plasma: A cross-platform
comparison of leading technologies to support the clinical development of
AZD9291.

Thress KS(1), Brant R(2), Carr TH(3), Dearden S(4), Jenkins S(5), Brown H(4),
Hammett T(6), Cantarini M(7), Barrett JC(8).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Science, Oncology iMED, AstraZeneca, 35 Gatehouse Drive,
Waltham, MA 02451, USA. Electronic address: kenneth.thress@astrazeneca.com.
(2)Translational Science, Oncology iMED, AstraZeneca, Alderley Park, Macclesfield
SK10 4TF, UK. (3)Translational Science, Oncology iMED, AstraZeneca, Milton Road, 
Cambridge CB4 0FZ, UK. (4)Personalised Healthcare & Biomarkers, AstraZeneca,
Milton Road, Cambridge CB4 0FZ, UK. (5)Personalised Healthcare & Biomarkers,
AstraZeneca, Alderley Park, Macclesfield SK10 4TF, UK. (6)Early Clinical
Development, Alderley Park, Macclesfield SK10 4TF, UK. (7)Global Medicines
Development, Alderley Park, Macclesfield SK10 4TF, UK. (8)Translational Science, 
Oncology iMED, AstraZeneca, 35 Gatehouse Drive, Waltham, MA 02451, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the ability of different technology platforms to detect
epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations, including T790M, from
circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) in advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A comparison of multiple platforms for detecting EGFR
mutations in plasma ctDNA was undertaken. Plasma samples were collected from
patients entering the ongoing AURA trial (NCT01802632), investigating the safety,
tolerability, and efficacy of AZD9291 in patients with EGFR-sensitizing
mutation-positive NSCLC. Plasma was collected prior to AZD9291 dosing but
following clinical progression on a previous EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitor
(TKI). Extracted ctDNA was analyzed using two non-digital platforms (cobas(®)
EGFR Mutation Test and therascreen™ EGFR amplification refractory mutation system
assay) and two digital platforms (Droplet Digital™ PCR and BEAMing digital PCR
[dPCR]).
RESULTS: Preliminary assessment (38 samples) was conducted using all four
platforms. For EGFR-TKI-sensitizing mutations, high sensitivity (78-100%) and
specificity (93-100%) were observed using tissue as a non-reference standard. For
the T790M mutation, the digital platforms outperformed the non-digital platforms.
Subsequent assessment using 72 additional baseline plasma samples was conducted
using the cobas(®) EGFR Mutation Test and BEAMing dPCR. The two platforms
demonstrated high sensitivity (82-87%) and specificity (97%) for EGFR-sensitizing
mutations. For the T790M mutation, the sensitivity and specificity were 73% and
67%, respectively, with the cobas(®) EGFR Mutation Test, and 81% and 58%,
respectively, with BEAMing dPCR. Concordance between the platforms was >90%,
showing that multiple platforms are capable of sensitive and specific detection
of EGFR-TKI-sensitizing mutations from NSCLC patient plasma.
CONCLUSION: The cobas(®) EGFR Mutation Test and BEAMing dPCR demonstrate a high
sensitivity for T790M mutation detection. Genomic heterogeneity of T790M-mediated
resistance may explain the reduced specificity observed with plasma-based
detection of T790M mutations versus tissue. These data support the use of both
platforms in the AZD9291 clinical development program.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2015.10.004 
PMID: 26494259  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. BMC Genomics. 2015 Oct 21;16:829. doi: 10.1186/s12864-015-2094-z.

Transcriptional response to sulfide in the Echiuran Worm Urechis unicinctus by
digital gene expression analysis.

Liu X(1), Zhang L(2), Zhang Z(3), Ma X(4), Liu J(5).

Author information: 
(1)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Marine Genetics and Breeding, College 
of Marine Life Sciences, Ocean University of China, Qingdao, 266003, China.
lxlong822@126.com. (2)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Marine Genetics and
Breeding, College of Marine Life Sciences, Ocean University of China, Qingdao,
266003, China. zhang19870711@163.com. (3)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of 
Marine Genetics and Breeding, College of Marine Life Sciences, Ocean University
of China, Qingdao, 266003, China. zzfp107@ouc.edu.cn. (4)Ministry of Education
Key Laboratory of Marine Genetics and Breeding, College of Marine Life Sciences, 
Ocean University of China, Qingdao, 266003, China. 1058576766@qq.com. (5)Ministry
of Education Key Laboratory of Marine Genetics and Breeding, College of Marine
Life Sciences, Ocean University of China, Qingdao, 266003, China.
hezeljgouc@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Urechis unicinctus, an echiuran worm inhabiting the U-shaped burrows 
in the coastal mud flats, is an important commercial and ecological invertebrate 
in Northeast Asian countries, which has potential applications in the study of
animal evolution, coastal sediment improvement and marine drug development.
Furthermore, the worm can tolerate and utilize well-known toxicant-sulfide.
However, knowledge is limited on the molecular mechanism of U. unicinctus
responding to sulfide due to deficiency of its genetic information.
METHODS: In this study, we performed Illumina sequencing to obtain the first
Urechis unicinctus transcriptome data. Sequenced reads were assembled and then
annotated using blast searches against Nr, Nt, Swiss-Prot, KEGG and COG. The
clean tags from four digital gene expression (DGE) libraries were mapped to the
U. unicinctus transcriptome. DGE analysis and functional annotation were then
performed to reveal its response to sulfide. The expressions of 12 candidate
genes were validated using quantitative real-time PCR. The results of qRT-PCR
were regressed against the DGE analysis, with a correlation coefficient and
p-value reported for each of them.
RESULTS: Here we first present a draft of U. unicinctus transcriptome using the
Illumina HiSeq(TM) 2000 platform and 52,093 unique sequences were assembled with 
the average length of 738 bp and N50 of 1131 bp. About 51.6 % of the
transcriptome were functionally annotated based on the databases of Nr, Nt,
Swiss-Prot, KEGG and COG. Then based on the transcriptome, the digital gene
expression analysis was conducted to examine the transcriptional response to
sulfide during 6, 24 and 48 h exposure, and finally 1705, 1181 and 1494
tag-mapped genes were identified as differentially expressed genes in the 6-h,
24-h and 48-h libraries, then were further subjected to pathway analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: In the DGE database of U. unicinctus, the alterations in certain
known sulfide-related pathways indicate similar changes in response to sulfide.
For more than 80 % of the identified pathway members, this is the first report on
their association with sulfide stress, among which glycolysis pathway and PIDD
involving pathways were unique and discussed in details, and were thought to play
important roles in the sulfide tolerance of U. unicinctus. All the results are
helpful to explain the mechanism of sulfide tolerance and detoxification.

DOI: 10.1186/s12864-015-2094-z 
PMCID: PMC4618349
PMID: 26487380  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Oncotarget. 2015 Nov 24;6(37):39651-60. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.5630.

IDH1 mutation detection by droplet digital PCR in glioma.

Wang J(1,)(2), Zhao YY(1), Li JF(3), Guo CC(1), Chen FR(1), Su HK(1), Zhao HF(2),
Long YK(4), Shao JY(4), To Ss(2), Chen ZP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery/Neuro-oncology, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer
Center; State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Collaborative Innovation
Center for Cancer Medicine, Guangzhou, China. (2)Department of Health Technology 
and Informatics, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hung Hom, Hong Kong,
China. (3)Department of Neurosurgery, Affiliated Shantou Hospital of Sun Yat-Sen 
University, Shantou, China. (4)Department of Molecular Diagnosis, Sun Yat-sen
University Cancer Center, State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China,
Collaborative Innovation Center for Cancer Medicine, Guangzhou, China.

Glioma is the most frequent central nervous system tumor in adults. The overall
survival of glioma patients is disappointing, mostly due to the poor prognosis of
glioblastoma (Grade IV glioma). Isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) is a key factor in
metabolism and catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of isocitrate. Mutations
in IDH genes are observed in over 70% of low-grade gliomas and some cases of
glioblastoma. As the most frequent mutation, IDH1(R132H) has been served as a
predictive marker of glioma patients. The recently developed droplet digital PCR 
(ddPCR) technique generates a large amount of nanoliter-sized droplets, each of
which carries out a PCR reaction on one template. Therefore, ddPCR provides high 
precision and absolute quantification of the nucleic acid target, with wide
applications for both research and clinical diagnosis. In the current study, we
collected 62 glioma tissue samples (Grade II to IV) and detected IDH1 mutations
by Sanger direct sequencing, ddPCR, and quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR).
With the results from Sanger direct sequencing as the standard, the
characteristics of ddPCR were compared with qRT-PCR. The data indicated that
ddPCR was much more sensitive and much easier to interpret than qRT-PCR. Thus, we
demonstrated that ddPCR is a reliable and sensitive method for screening the IDH 
mutation. Therefore, ddPCR is able to applied clinically in predicting patient
prognosis and selecting effective therapeutic strategies. Our data also supported
that the prognosis of Grade II and III glioma was better in patients with an IDH 
mutation than in those without mutation.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.5630 
PMCID: PMC4741852
PMID: 26485760  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. New Microbiol. 2015 Oct;38(4):437-41. Epub 2015 Oct 20.

Are three generations of quantitative molecular methods sufficient in medical
virology? Brief review.

Clementi M(1), Bagnarelli P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Università Vita-Salute San Raffaele, Milano, Laboratorio di Microbiologia e
Virologia. (2)Università Politecnica delle Marche, Ancona, Dipartimento di
Scienze Biomediche e Sanità Pubblica, Laboratorio di Virologia, Italy.

In the last two decades, development of quantitative molecular methods has
characterized the evolution of clinical virology more than any other
methodological advancement. Using these methods, a great deal of studies has
addressed efficiently in vivo the role of viral load, viral replication activity,
and viral transcriptional profiles as correlates of disease outcome and
progression, and has highlighted the physio-pathology of important virus diseases
of humans. Furthermore, these studies have contributed to a better understanding 
of virus-host interactions and have sharply revolutionized the research
strategies in basic and medical virology. In addition and importantly from a
medical point of view, quantitative methods have provided a rationale for the
therapeutic intervention and therapy monitoring in medically important viral
diseases. Despite the advances in technology and the development of three
generations of molecular methods within the last two decades (competitive PCR,
real-time PCR, and digital PCR), great challenges still remain for viral testing 
related not only to standardization, accuracy, and precision, but also to
selection of the best molecular targets for clinical use and to the
identification of thresholds for risk stratification and therapeutic decisions.
Future research directions, novel methods and technical improvements could be
important to address these challenges.


PMID: 26485007  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. J Vis Exp. 2015 Oct 8;(104). doi: 10.3791/53190.

Employing Digital Droplet PCR to Detect BRAF V600E Mutations in Formalin-fixed
Paraffin-embedded Reference Standard Cell Lines.

Rajasekaran N(1), Oh MR(2), Kim SS(1), Kim SE(2), Kim YD(3), Choi HJ(4), Byun
B(4), Shin YK(5).

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute of Pharmaceutical Science, Department of Pharmacy, College 
of Pharmacy, Seoul National University. (2)ABION CRO. (3)ABION Inc., R&D Center. 
(4)The Center for Anti-Cancer CDx, N-Bio, Seoul National University. (5)Research 
Institute of Pharmaceutical Science, Department of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy,
Seoul National University; The Center for Anti-Cancer CDx, N-Bio, Seoul National 
University; ykeeshin@snu.ac.kr.

ddPCR is a highly sensitive PCR method that utilizes a water-oil emulsion system.
Using a droplet generator, an extracted nucleic acid sample is partitioned into
~20,000 nano-sized, water-in-oil droplets, and PCR amplification occurs in
individual droplets. The ddPCR approach is in identifying sequence mutations,
copy number alterations, and select structural rearrangements involving targeted 
genes. Here, we demonstrate the use of ddPCR as a powerful technique for
precisely quantitating rare BRAF V600E mutations in FFPE reference standard cell 
lines, which is helpful in identifying individuals with cancer. In conclusion,
ddPCR technique offers the potential to precisely profile the specific rare
mutations in different genes in various types of FFPE samples.

DOI: 10.3791/53190 
PMID: 26484710  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Front Microbiol. 2015 Sep 29;6:1062. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2015.01062. eCollection
2015.

Comparison of methods for the enumeration of enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli
from veal hides and carcasses.

Luedtke BE(1), Bosilevac JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)U. S. Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, Roman L.
Hruska U. S. Meat Animal Research Center Clay Center, NE, USA.

The increased association of enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EHEC) with veal 
calves has led the United States Department of Agriculture Food Safety and
Inspection Service to report results of veal meat contaminated with the Top 7
serogroups separately from beef cattle. However, detection methods that can also 
provide concentration for determining the prevalence and abundance of EHEC
associated with veal are lacking. Here we compared the ability of qPCR and a
molecular based most probable number assay (MPN) to detect and enumerate EHEC
from veal hides at the abattoir and the resulting pre-intervention carcasses. In 
addition, digital PCR (dPCR) was used to analyze select samples. The qPCR assay
was able to enumerate total EHEC in 32% of the hide samples with a range of
approximately 34 to 91,412 CFUs/100 cm(2) (95% CI 4-113,460 CFUs/100 cm(2)).
Using the MPN assay, total EHEC was enumerable in 48% of the hide samples and
ranged from approximately 1 to greater than 17,022 CFUs/100 cm(2) (95% CI
0.4-72,000 CFUs/100 cm(2)). The carcass samples had lower amounts of EHEC with a 
range of approximately 4-275 CFUs/100 cm(2) (95% CI 3-953 CFUs/100 cm(2)) from
17% of samples with an enumerable amount of EHEC by qPCR. For the MPN assay, the 
carcass samples ranged from 0.1 to 1 CFUs/100 cm(2) (95% CI 0.02-4 CFUs/100
cm(2)) from 29% of the samples. The correlation coefficient between the qPCR and 
MPN enumeration methods indicated a moderate relation (R (2) = 0.39) for the hide
samples while the carcass samples had no relation (R (2) = 0.002), which was
likely due to most samples having an amount of total EHEC below the reliable
limit of quantification for qPCR. Interestingly, after enrichment, 81% of the
hide samples and 94% of the carcass samples had a detectable amount of total EHEC
by qPCR. From our analysis, the MPN assay provided a higher percentage of
enumerable hide and carcass samples, however determining an appropriate dilution 
range and the limited throughput offer additional challenges.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2015.01062 
PMCID: PMC4586433
PMID: 26483780 


616. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2016 Jan;408(1):67-75. doi: 10.1007/s00216-015-9109-0. Epub
2015 Oct 19.

Digital PCR for direct quantification of viruses without DNA extraction.

Pavšič J(1,)(2), Žel J(3), Milavec M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Systems Biology, National Institute of
Biology, Večna pot 111, 1000, Ljubljana, Slovenia. jernej.pavsic@nib.si. (2)Jožef
Stefan International Postgraduate School, Jamova cesta 39, 1000, Ljubljana,
Slovenia. jernej.pavsic@nib.si. (3)Department of Biotechnology and Systems
Biology, National Institute of Biology, Večna pot 111, 1000, Ljubljana, Slovenia.

DNA extraction before amplification is considered an essential step for
quantification of viral DNA using real-time PCR (qPCR). However, this can
directly affect the final measurements due to variable DNA yields and removal of 
inhibitors, which leads to increased inter-laboratory variability of qPCR
measurements and reduced agreement on viral loads. Digital PCR (dPCR) might be an
advantageous methodology for the measurement of virus concentrations, as it does 
not depend on any calibration material and it has higher tolerance to inhibitors.
DNA quantification without an extraction step (i.e. direct quantification) was
performed here using dPCR and two different human cytomegalovirus whole-virus
materials. Two dPCR platforms were used for this direct quantification of the
viral DNA, and these were compared with quantification of the extracted viral DNA
in terms of yield and variability. Direct quantification of both whole-virus
materials present in simple matrices like cell lysate or Tris-HCl buffer provided
repeatable measurements of virus concentrations that were probably in closer
agreement with the actual viral load than when estimated through quantification
of the extracted DNA. Direct dPCR quantification of other viruses, reference
materials and clinically relevant matrices is now needed to show the full
versatility of this very promising and cost-efficient development in virus
quantification.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-015-9109-0 
PMCID: PMC4706837
PMID: 26483186  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. BJU Int. 2016 Apr;117(4):686-96. doi: 10.1111/bju.13184. Epub 2015 Jul 29.

Immunocytochemical detection of ERG expression in exfoliated urinary cells
identifies with high specificity patients with prostate cancer.

Pal RP(1,)(2), Kockelbergh RC(2), Pringle JH(1), Cresswell L(3), Hew R(4), Dormer
JP(4), Cooper C(5), Mellon JK(2), Barwell JG(6), Hollox EJ(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cancer Studies and Molecular Medicine, University of Leicester, 
Leicester, UK. (2)Department of Urology, University Hospitals of Leicester NHS
Trust, Leicester, UK. (3)Department of Cytogenetics, University Hospitals of
Leicester NHS Trust, Leicester, UK. (4)Department of Cellular Pathology,
University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust, Leicester, UK. (5)Department of
Cancer Genetics, University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK. (6)Department of
Genetics, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK.

Comment in
    BJU Int. 2016 Apr;117(4):547-8.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the immunocytochemical detection of ERG protein in
exfoliated cells as a means of identifying patients with prostate cancer (PCa)
before prostate biopsy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Urine samples (30 mL) were collected after digital rectal 
examination (DRE) from 159 patients with an elevated age-specific
prostate-specific antigen (PSA) and/or an abnormal DRE who underwent prostate
biopsy. In all cases, exfoliated urinary cells from half of the urine sample
underwent immunocytochemical assessment for ERG protein expression. Exfoliated
cells in the remaining half underwent assessment of TMPRSS2:ERG status using
either nested reverse-transcriptase (RT)-PCR (151 cases) or fluorescence in situ 
hybridization (FISH; eight cases). Corresponding tissue samples were evaluated
using FISH to determine chromosomal gene fusion tissue status and
immunohistochemistry (IHC) to determine ERG protein expression. Results were
correlated with clinicopathological variables.
RESULTS: The sensitivity and specificity of urinary ERG immunocytochemistry (ICC)
for PCa were 22.7 and 100%, respectively. ERG ICC results correlated with
advanced tumour grade, stage and higher serum PSA. In comparison, urine
TMPRSS2:ERG transcript analysis had 27% sensitivity and 98% specificity for PCa
detection. On tissue IHC, ERG staining was highly specific for PCa. In all, 52%
of cancers harboured foci of ERG staining; however, only 46% of cancers that were
found to have ERG overexpression were positive on urine ICC. The ERG ICC results 
showed strong concordance with urinary RT-PCR and FISH, and tissue IHC and FISH.
CONCLUSION: This is the first study to show that cytological gene fusion
detection using ICC is feasible and identifies patients with adverse disease
markers. ERG ICC was highly specific, but this technique was less sensitive than 
RT-PCR.

© 2015 The Authors BJU International © 2015 BJU International Published by John
Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/bju.13184 
PMID: 26471473  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Cell Prolif. 2015 Dec;48(6):650-60. doi: 10.1111/cpr.12218. Epub 2015 Oct 15.

Effects of heterodimeric bone morphogenetic protein-2/7 on osteogenesis of human 
adipose-derived stem cells.

Zhang X(1,)(2), Guo J(3), Wu G(2), Zhou Y(1,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, Peking University School and Hospital of
Stomatology, Beijing, 100081, China. (2)Department of Oral Implantology and
Prosthetic Dentistry, Academic Centre for Dentistry Amsterdam (ACTA), Research
Institute MOVE, VU University and University of Amsterdam, 1081 LA, Amsterdam,
the Netherland. (3)Department of Oral Cell Biology, Academic Centre for Dentistry
Amsterdam (ACTA), Research Institute MOVE, VU University and University of
Amsterdam, 1081 LA, Amsterdam, the Netherland. (4)National Engineering Laboratory
for Digital and Material Technology of Stomatology, Peking University School and 
Hospital of Stomatology, Beijing, 100081, China.

OBJECTIVE: Roles of bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) on osteogenesis of human
adipose-derived stem cells (hASCs) remain ambiguous. In this study, we evaluated 
in vitro and in vivo functional characteristics of BMPs of different dimerization
types, with the aim of determining osteoinductive efficiency of heterodimeric
BMP-2/7 on osteogenesis of hASCs.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We explored osteoinductive effects of three different BMPs
by using cell DNA assay, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity assay, alizarin red 
staining and mineralization assay, and real-time PCR, in vitro. Also, we examined
ectopic bone formation in nude mice by using soft X-ray, histomorphometric and
immunohistochemical analyses in vivo.
RESULTS: In our dose-response study, we showed that BMPs with both dimerization
types did not induce in vitro osteogenesis of hASCs without osteogenic medium
(OM). In the presence of OM, BMPs significantly enhanced hASC osteogenesis in a
dose-dependent manner. In in vivo experiments, our analyses indicated that BMPs
promoted osteogenesis of hASCs without in vitro osteogenic induction. However,
both in vitro and in vivo, there were no significant differences in hASC
osteogenic induction between heterodimeric and homodimeric BMPs.
CONCLUSIONS: Heterodimeric BMP-2/7 significantly promoted osteogenesis of hASCs
in vitro and in vivo. However, BMP-2/7 was not found to be a stronger inducer of 
osteogenesis compared to homodimeric either BMP-2 or BMP-7.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cpr.12218 
PMID: 26466853  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2015 Dec;407(30):9153-63. doi: 10.1007/s00216-015-9081-8. Epub
2015 Oct 13.

Developing a matrix reference material for screening of transgenic rice.

Li J(1,)(2), Wu Y(1,)(2), Li X(1,)(2), Wang Y(1,)(2), Zhang L(3), Li Y(1,)(2), Wu
G(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Oil Crop Biology of the Ministry of Agriculture, Oil Crops
Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, No. 2 Xudong 2nd
Road, Wuhan, 430062, China. (2)Supervision and Test Center (Wuhan) for
Environmental Safety of Genetically Modified Plants, Ministry of Agriculture, No.
2 Xudong 2nd Road, Wuhan, 430062, China. (3)College of Life Science,
South-Central University for Nationalities, 182 Min-Yuan Road, 430074, Wuhan,
China. (4)Key Laboratory of Oil Crop Biology of the Ministry of Agriculture, Oil 
Crops Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, No. 2 Xudong 
2nd Road, Wuhan, 430062, China. wugang@caas.cn. (5)Supervision and Test Center
(Wuhan) for Environmental Safety of Genetically Modified Plants, Ministry of
Agriculture, No. 2 Xudong 2nd Road, Wuhan, 430062, China. wugang@caas.cn.

Certified reference materials (CRMs) that are compatible with detection methods
are needed to detect genetically modified organisms (GMOs). Screening is the
first detection step in determining the possible presence of GMO ingredients in
food or feed; however, screening has been hindered by the lack of GMO CRMs. In
this study, transgenic rice materials were developed via the transformation of a 
construct harboring 11 commonly used screening elements. Digital PCR was utilized
to identify a homozygous single-copy line termed SDrice. The qualitative
detections of 11 elements in 21 transgenic materials demonstrated that the
genomic DNA of the SDrice was suitable for use as a positive control in the
screening of GMO ingredients. The suitability of SDrice as reference material was
further checked by testing the sensitivity of 11 known conventional PCR assays,
ranging from 10 to 50 copies of the SDrice genome. The standard curves that were 
created using SDrice DNA series as calibrators all exhibited good linearities in 
the relationships of the Ct values with the template copy numbers in these 11
real-time PCR assays. The LODs of the real-time PCR assays were estimated to be
two to five copies of the SDrice genome. Comparisons of the SDrice with other GM 
rice revealed that significant differences existed in both the intercepts of the 
standard curves and the ΔCt values of the exogenous and reference genes for the
P-35S, T-nos, HPT, T-35S, and Bar assays; the SDrice was not fit for
quantification of other GM rice events. This study provided a matrix reference
material (RM) that was suitable for screening GM rice, determination of
sensitivity and a LOD of PCR assays, and overcame some of the drawbacks of
plasmid DNA as reference material.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-015-9081-8 
PMID: 26462921  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Oncotarget. 2015 Nov 10;6(35):37824-35. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.5637.

Heterogeneity revealed by integrated genomic analysis uncovers a molecular switch
in malignant uveal melanoma.

de Lange MJ(1), van Pelt SI(1), Versluis M(1), Jordanova ES(2), Kroes WG(3),
Ruivenkamp C(3), van der Burg SH(4), Luyten GP(1), van Hall T(4), Jager MJ(1),
van der Velden PA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, LUMC, Leiden, The Netherlands. (2)Department of
Pathology, LUMC, Leiden, The Netherlands. (3)Department of Clinical Genetics
Laboratory for Diagnostic Genome Analysis (LDGA), LUMC, Leiden, The Netherlands. 
(4)Department of Clinical Oncology, LUMC, Leiden, The Netherlands.

Gene expression profiles as well as genomic imbalances are correlated with
disease progression in uveal melanoma (UM). We integrated expression and genomic 
profiles to obtain insight into the oncogenic mechanisms in development and
progression of UM. We used tumor tissue from 64 enucleated eyes of UM patients
for profiling. Mutations and genomic imbalances were quantified with digital PCR 
to study tumor heterogeneity and molecular pathogenesis. Gene expression analysis
divided the UM panel into three classes. Class I presented tumors with a good
prognosis and a distinct genomic make up that is characterized by 6p gain. The UM
with a bad prognosis were subdivided into class IIa and class IIb. These classes 
presented similar survival risks but could be distinguished by tumor
heterogeneity. Class IIa presented homogeneous tumors while class IIb tumors, on 
average, contained 30% of non-mutant cells. Tumor heterogeneity coincided with
expression of a set of immune genes revealing an extensive immune infiltrate in
class IIb tumors. Molecularly, class IIa and IIb presented the same genomic
configuration and could only be distinguished by 8q copy number. Moreover, UM
establish in the void of the immune privileged eye indicating that in IIb tumors 
the infiltrate is attracted by the UM. Combined our data show that chromosome 8q 
contains the locus that causes the immune phentotype of UM. UM thereby provides
an unique opportunity to study immune attraction by tumors.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.5637 
PMCID: PMC4741968
PMID: 26462151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Clin Cancer Res. 2016 Feb 15;22(4):915-22. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-1627-T. 
Epub 2015 Oct 12.

Bias-Corrected Targeted Next-Generation Sequencing for Rapid, Multiplexed
Detection of Actionable Alterations in Cell-Free DNA from Advanced Lung Cancer
Patients.

Paweletz CP(1), Sacher AG(2), Raymond CK(3), Alden RS(2), O'Connell A(1), Mach
SL(2), Kuang Y(1), Gandhi L(2), Kirschmeier P(1), English JM(1), Lim LP(3), Jänne
PA(4), Oxnard GR(5).

Author information: 
(1)Belfer Center for Applied Cancer Science, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute,
Boston, Massachusetts. (2)Lowe Center for Thoracic Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute, Boston, Massachusetts. (3)Resolution Bioscience, Bellevue, Washington.
(4)Belfer Center for Applied Cancer Science, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute,
Boston, Massachusetts. Lowe Center for Thoracic Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute, Boston, Massachusetts. (5)Lowe Center for Thoracic Oncology,
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts.
geoffrey_oxnard@dfci.harvard.edu.

Comment in
    Clin Cancer Res. 2016 Feb 15;22(4):790-2.

PURPOSE: Tumor genotyping is a powerful tool for guiding non-small cell lung
cancer (NSCLC) care; however, comprehensive tumor genotyping can be logistically 
cumbersome. To facilitate genotyping, we developed a next-generation sequencing
(NGS) assay using a desktop sequencer to detect actionable mutations and
rearrangements in cell-free plasma DNA (cfDNA).
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: An NGS panel was developed targeting 11 driver oncogenes
found in NSCLC. Targeted NGS was performed using a novel methodology that
maximizes on-target reads, and minimizes artifact, and was validated on DNA
dilutions derived from cell lines. Plasma NGS was then blindly performed on 48
patients with advanced, progressive NSCLC and a known tumor genotype, and
explored in two patients with incomplete tumor genotyping.
RESULTS: NGS could identify mutations present in DNA dilutions at ≥ 0.4% allelic 
frequency with 100% sensitivity/specificity. Plasma NGS detected a broad range of
driver and resistance mutations, including ALK, ROS1, and RET rearrangements,
HER2 insertions, and MET amplification, with 100% specificity. Sensitivity was
77% across 62 known driver and resistance mutations from the 48 cases; in 29
cases with common EGFR and KRAS mutations, sensitivity was similar to droplet
digital PCR. In two cases with incomplete tumor genotyping, plasma NGS rapidly
identified a novel EGFR exon 19 deletion and a missed case of MET amplification.
CONCLUSIONS: Blinded to tumor genotype, this plasma NGS approach detected a broad
range of targetable genomic alterations in NSCLC with no false positives
including complex mutations like rearrangements and unexpected resistance
mutations such as EGFR C797S. Through use of widely available vacutainers and a
desktop sequencing platform, this assay has the potential to be implemented
broadly for patient care and translational research.

©2015 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-1627-T 
PMCID: PMC4755822
PMID: 26459174  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Hum Mutat. 2016 Jan;37(1):119-26. doi: 10.1002/humu.22912. Epub 2015 Oct 29.

Targeted Droplet-Digital PCR as a Tool for Novel Deletion Discovery at the DFNB1 
Locus.

Tayoun AN(1,)(2,)(3), Mason-Suares H(2,)(4), Frisella AL(2), Bowser M(2), Duffy
E(2), Mahanta L(2), Funke B(2,)(4), Rehm HL(2,)(4), Amr SS(2,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Medical School Genetics Training Program, Harvard, Cambridge, MA.
(2)Laboratory for Molecular Medicine, Partners Healthcare Personalized Medicine, 
Cambridge, MA. (3)Division of Genomic Diagnostics, The Children's Hospital of
Philadelphia, The University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, PA.
(4)Department of Pathology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, MA.

Pathogenic variants at the DFNB1 locus encompassing the GJB2 and GJB6 genes
account for 50% of autosomal-recessive, congenital nonsyndromic hearing loss in
the United States. Most cases are caused by sequence variants within the GJB2
gene, but a significant number of DFNB1 patients carry a large deletion
(GJB6-D13S1830) in trans with a GJB2 variant. This deletion lies upstream of GJB2
and was shown to reduce GJB2 expression by disrupting unidentified regulatory
elements. First-tier genetic testing for hearing loss includes GJB2 sequence and 
GJB6-D13S1830 deletion analysis; however, several other deletions in this locus, 
each with distinct breakpoints, have been reported in DFNB1 patients and are
missed by current panels. Here, we report the development of a targeted droplet
digital polymerase chain reaction-based assay for comprehensive copy-number
analysis at the DFNB1 locus that detects all deletions reported to date. This
assay increased detection rates in a multiethnic cohort of 87 hearing loss
patients with only one identified pathogenic GJB2 variant. We identify two
deletions, one of which is novel, in two patients (2/87 or 2.3%), suggesting that
other pathogenic deletions at the DFNB1 locus may be missed. Mapping the assayed 
DFNB1 deletions also revealed a ∼ 95 kb critical region, which may harbor the
GJB2 regulatory element(s).

© 2015 WILEY PERIODICALS, INC.

DOI: 10.1002/humu.22912 
PMID: 26444186  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Mol Oncol. 2016 Jan;10(1):157-65. doi: 10.1016/j.molonc.2015.09.005. Epub 2015
Sep 25.

Sensitivity of plasma BRAFmutant and NRASmutant cell-free DNA assays to detect
metastatic melanoma in patients with low RECIST scores and non-RECIST disease
progression.

Chang GA(1), Tadepalli JS(1), Shao Y(2), Zhang Y(2), Weiss S(3), Robinson E(1),
Spittle C(4), Furtado M(5), Shelton DN(5), Karlin-Neumann G(5), Pavlick A(3),
Osman I(1), Polsky D(6).

Author information: 
(1)The Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology, New York University School
of Medicine, New York, NY, USA; Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center, NYU
Langone Medical Center, USA. (2)Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center, NYU
Langone Medical Center, USA; Department of Population Health, New York University
School of Medicine, New York, NY, USA. (3)Department of Medicine, Division of
Oncology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY, USA; Laura and
Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center, NYU Langone Medical Center, USA. (4)Molecular MD 
Corporation, Portland, OR, USA. (5)Digital Biology Center, Bio-Rad Laboratories, 
Pleasanton, CA, USA. (6)The Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology, New
York University School of Medicine, New York, NY, USA; Laura and Isaac Perlmutter
Cancer Center, NYU Langone Medical Center, USA. Electronic address:
david.polsky@nyumc.org.

Melanoma lacks a clinically useful blood-based biomarker of disease activity to
help guide patient management. To determine whether measurements of circulating, 
cell-free, tumor-associated BRAF(mutant) and NRAS(mutant) DNA (ctDNA) have a
higher sensitivity than LDH to detect metastatic disease prior to treatment
initiation and upon disease progression we studied patients with unresectable
stage IIIC/IV metastatic melanoma receiving treatment with BRAF inhibitor therapy
or immune checkpoint blockade and at least 3 plasma samples obtained during their
treatment course. Levels of BRAF(mutant) and NRAS(mutant) ctDNA were determined
using droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) assays. Among patients with samples available
prior to treatment initiation ctDNA and LDH levels were elevated in 12/15 (80%)
and 6/20 (30%) (p = 0.006) patients respectively. In patients with RECIST scores 
<5 cm prior to treatment initiation, ctDNA levels were elevated in 5/7 (71%)
patients compared to LDH which was elevated in 1/13 (8%) patients (p = 0.007).
Among all disease progression events the modified bootstrapped sensitivities for 
ctDNA and LDH were 82% and 40% respectively, with a median difference in
sensitivity of 42% (95% confidence interval, 27%-58%; P < 0.001). In addition,
ctDNA levels were elevated in 13/16 (81%) instances of non-RECIST disease
progression, including 10/12 (83%) instances of new brain metastases. In
comparison LDH was elevated 8/16 (50%) instances of non-RECIST disease
progression, including 6/12 (50%) instances of new brain metastases. Overall,
ctDNA had a higher sensitivity than LDH to detect disease progression, including 
non-RECIST progression events. ctDNA has the potential to be a useful biomarker
for monitoring melanoma disease activity.

Copyright © 2015 Federation of European Biochemical Societies. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molonc.2015.09.005 
PMCID: PMC4695284
PMID: 26440707  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2015 Dec;407(30):9061-9. doi: 10.1007/s00216-015-9073-8. Epub 
2015 Oct 5.

Real-time cdPCR opens a window into events occurring in the first few PCR
amplification cycles.

Duewer DL(1), Kline MC(2), Romsos EL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Material Measurement Laboratory, National Institute of Standards and
Technology, 100 Bureau Drive, Stop 8390, Gaithersburg, MD, 20899-8390, USA.
david.duewer@nist.gov. (2)Material Measurement Laboratory, National Institute of 
Standards and Technology, 100 Bureau Drive, Stop 8390, Gaithersburg, MD,
20899-8390, USA.

Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) end-point limiting dilution techniques,
collectively termed "digital PCR (dPCR)", have been proposed as providing a
potentially primary method for DNA quantification. We are evaluating several
commercially available dPCR systems for use in certifying mass concentration in
human genomic DNA reference materials. To better understand observed anomalies
among results from chamber- and droplet-dPCR (cdPCR and ddPCR) systems, we have
developed a graphical tool for evaluating and documenting the performance of PCR 
assays in real-time cdPCR systems: the ogive plot, the cumulative distribution of
crossing threshold values. The ogive structure appears to embed information about
early amplification events. We have successfully simulated ogives observed with
different assays and reaction conditions using a four-stage amplification model
parameterized by the probability of creating an intact 1) first generation "long"
amplicon of indeterminate length from an original DNA target, 2) second
generation defined-length amplicon from a long amplicon, and 3) defined-length
amplicon from another defined-length amplicon. We are using insights from this
model to optimize dPCR assay design and reaction conditions and to help validate 
assays proposed for use in value-assigning DNA reference materials.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-015-9073-8 
PMID: 26438478  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Acta Neuropathol. 2015 Dec;130(6):863-76. doi: 10.1007/s00401-015-1480-6. Epub
2015 Oct 5.

Novel clinical associations with specific C9ORF72 transcripts in patients with
repeat expansions in C9ORF72.

van Blitterswijk M(1), Gendron TF(1), Baker MC(1), DeJesus-Hernandez M(1), Finch 
NA(1), Brown PH(1), Daughrity LM(1), Murray ME(1), Heckman MG(2), Jiang J(3),
Lagier-Tourenne C(3,)(4), Edbauer D(5,)(6,)(7), Cleveland DW(3,)(8), Josephs
KA(9), Parisi JE(9), Knopman DS(9), Petersen RC(9), Petrucelli L(1), Boeve BF(9),
Graff-Radford NR(10), Boylan KB(10), Dickson DW(1), Rademakers R(11).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic, 4500 San Pablo Road, Jacksonville,
FL, 32224, USA. (2)Division of Biomedical Statistics and Informatics, Mayo
Clinic, 4500 San Pablo Road, Jacksonville, FL, 32224, USA. (3)Ludwig Institute,
University of California at San Diego, La Jolla, CA, 92093, USA. (4)Department of
Neurosciences, University of California at San Diego, La Jolla, CA, 92093, USA.
(5)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Munich, Germany.
(6)Institute for Metabolic Biochemistry, Ludwig-Maximilians University Munich,
Munich, Germany. (7)Munich Cluster of Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich,
Germany. (8)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, University of
California at San Diego, La Jolla, CA, 92093, USA. (9)Department of Neurology,
Mayo Clinic, 200 1st St SW, Rochester, MN, 55905, USA. (10)Department of
Neurology, Mayo Clinic, 4500 San Pablo Road, Jacksonville, FL, 32224, USA.
(11)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic, 4500 San Pablo Road, Jacksonville,
FL, 32224, USA. rademakers.rosa@mayo.edu.

The loss of chromosome 9 open reading frame 72 (C9ORF72) expression, associated
with C9ORF72 repeat expansions, has not been examined systematically. Three
C9ORF72 transcript variants have been described thus far; the GGGGCC repeat is
located between two non-coding exons (exon 1a and exon 1b) in the promoter region
of transcript variant 2 (NM_018325.4) or in the first intron of variant 1
(NM_145005.6) and variant 3 (NM_001256054.2). We studied C9ORF72 expression in
expansion carriers (n = 56) for whom cerebellum and/or frontal cortex was
available. Using quantitative real-time PCR and digital molecular barcoding
techniques, we assessed total C9ORF72 transcripts, variant 1, variant 2, variant 
3, and intron containing transcripts [upstream of the expansion (intron 1a) and
downstream of the expansion (intron 1b)]; the latter were correlated with levels 
of poly(GP) and poly(GA) proteins aberrantly translated from the expansion as
measured by immunoassay (n = 50). We detected a decrease in expansion carriers as
compared to controls for total C9ORF72 transcripts, variant 1, and variant 2: the
strongest association was observed for variant 2 (quantitative real-time PCR
cerebellum: median 43 %, p = 1.26e-06, and frontal cortex: median 58 %,
p = 1.11e-05; digital molecular barcoding cerebellum: median 31 %, p = 5.23e-10, 
and frontal cortex: median 53 %, p = 5.07e-10). Importantly, we revealed that
variant 1 levels greater than the 25th percentile conferred a survival advantage 
[digital molecular barcoding cerebellum: hazard ratio (HR) 0.31, p = 0.003, and
frontal cortex: HR 0.23, p = 0.0001]. When focusing on intron containing
transcripts, analysis of the frontal cortex revealed an increase of potentially
truncated transcripts in expansion carriers as compared to controls [digital
molecular barcoding frontal cortex (intron 1a): median 272 %, p = 0.003], with
the highest levels in patients pathologically diagnosed with frontotemporal lobar
degeneration. In the cerebellum, our analysis suggested that transcripts were
less likely to be truncated and, excitingly, we discovered that intron containing
transcripts were associated with poly(GP) levels [digital molecular barcoding
cerebellum (intron 1a): r = 0.33, p = 0.02, and (intron 1b): r = 0.49,
p = 0.0004] and poly(GA) levels [digital molecular barcoding cerebellum (intron
1a): r = 0.34, p = 0.02, and (intron 1b): r = 0.38, p = 0.007]. In summary, we
report decreased expression of specific C9ORF72 transcripts and provide support
for the presence of truncated transcripts as well as pre-mRNAs that may serve as 
templates for RAN translation. We further show that higher C9ORF72 levels may
have beneficial effects, which warrants caution in the development of new
therapeutic approaches.

DOI: 10.1007/s00401-015-1480-6 
PMCID: PMC4655160
PMID: 26437865  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Anal Chem. 2015 Nov 3;87(21):10886-93. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.5b02429. Epub
2015 Oct 13.

Statistical Models for the Analysis and Design of Digital Polymerase Chain
Reaction (dPCR) Experiments.

Dorazio RM(1), Hunter ME(1).

Author information: 
(1)Southeast Ecological Science Center, U.S. Geological Survey , 7920 NW 71st
Street, Gainesville, Florida 32653, United States.

Statistical methods for the analysis and design of experiments using digital PCR 
(dPCR) have received only limited attention and have been misused in many
instances. To address this issue and to provide a more general approach to the
analysis of dPCR data, we describe a class of statistical models for the analysis
and design of experiments that require quantification of nucleic acids. These
models are mathematically equivalent to generalized linear models of binomial
responses that include a complementary, log-log link function and an offset that 
is dependent on the dPCR partition volume. These models are both versatile and
easy to fit using conventional statistical software. Covariates can be used to
specify different sources of variation in nucleic acid concentration, and a
model's parameters can be used to quantify the effects of these covariates. For
purposes of illustration, we analyzed dPCR data from different types of
experiments, including serial dilution, evaluation of copy number variation, and 
quantification of gene expression. We also showed how these models can be used to
help design dPCR experiments, as in selection of sample sizes needed to achieve
desired levels of precision in estimates of nucleic acid concentration or to
detect differences in concentration among treatments with prescribed levels of
statistical power.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.5b02429 
PMID: 26436653  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. J Vis Exp. 2015 Sep 24;(103). doi: 10.3791/52925.

Simple Bulk Readout of Digital Nucleic Acid Quantification Assays.

Morinishi LS(1), Blainey P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Broad Institute. (2)Department of Biological Engineering, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology; pblainey@broadinstitute.org.

Digital assays are powerful methods that enable detection of rare cells and
counting of individual nucleic acid molecules. However, digital assays are still 
not routinely applied, due to the cost and specific equipment associated with
commercially available methods. Here we present a simplified method for readout
of digital droplet assays using a conventional real-time PCR instrument to
measure bulk fluorescence of droplet-based digital assays. We characterize the
performance of the bulk readout assay using synthetic droplet mixtures and a
droplet digital multiple displacement amplification (MDA) assay. Quantitative MDA
particularly benefits from a digital reaction format, but our new method applies 
to any digital assay. For established digital assay protocols such as digital
PCR, this method serves to speed up and simplify assay readout. Our bulk readout 
methodology brings the advantages of partitioned assays without the need for
specialized readout instrumentation. The principal limitations of the bulk
readout methodology are reduced dynamic range compared with droplet-counting
platforms and the need for a standard sample, although the requirements for this 
standard are less demanding than for a conventional real-time experiment.
Quantitative whole genome amplification (WGA) is used to test for contaminants in
WGA reactions and is the most sensitive way to detect the presence of DNA
fragments with unknown sequences, giving the method great promise in diverse
application areas including pharmaceutical quality control and astrobiology.

DOI: 10.3791/52925 
PMID: 26436576  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2015 Nov 13;467(2):261-7. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2015.09.178. Epub 2015 Oct 3.

T gene isoform expression pattern is significantly different between chordomas
and notochords.

Wang K(1), Hu Q(2), Wang L(3), Chen W(4), Tian K(5), Cao C(6), Wu Z(7), Jia G(8),
Zhang L(9), Zeng C(10), Zhang J(11).

Author information: 
(1)Skull Base and Brainstem Tumor Division, Department of Neurosurgery, Beijing
Tian Tan Hospital, Capital Medical University, Tiantan Xili 6, Dongcheng
District, Beijing 100050, China; China National Clinical Research Center for
Neurological Diseases, NCRC-ND, Tiantan Xili 6, Dongcheng District, Beijing
100050, China. Electronic address: wangke15903@163.com. (2)Key Laboratory of
Genomic and Precision Medicine, Beijing Institute of Genomics, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Beijing 100101, China; University of Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Beijing 100049, China. Electronic address: huqingtao1987@163.com. (3)Skull Base
and Brainstem Tumor Division, Department of Neurosurgery, Beijing Tian Tan
Hospital, Capital Medical University, Tiantan Xili 6, Dongcheng District, Beijing
100050, China; China National Clinical Research Center for Neurological Diseases,
NCRC-ND, Tiantan Xili 6, Dongcheng District, Beijing 100050, China. Electronic
address: saintage7@126.com. (4)Key Laboratory of Genomic and Precision Medicine, 
Beijing Institute of Genomics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101,
China. Electronic address: chenw@big.ac.cn. (5)Skull Base and Brainstem Tumor
Division, Department of Neurosurgery, Beijing Tian Tan Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Tiantan Xili 6, Dongcheng District, Beijing 100050, China; China
National Clinical Research Center for Neurological Diseases, NCRC-ND, Tiantan
Xili 6, Dongcheng District, Beijing 100050, China. Electronic address:
tiankaibing@126.com. (6)State Key Laboratory of Stem Cell and Reproductive
Biology, Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101,
China. Electronic address: ccw370920866@163.com. (7)Skull Base and Brainstem
Tumor Division, Department of Neurosurgery, Beijing Tian Tan Hospital, Capital
Medical University, Tiantan Xili 6, Dongcheng District, Beijing 100050, China;
China National Clinical Research Center for Neurological Diseases, NCRC-ND,
Tiantan Xili 6, Dongcheng District, Beijing 100050, China. Electronic address:
wuzhen1966@aliyun.com. (8)Skull Base and Brainstem Tumor Division, Department of 
Neurosurgery, Beijing Tian Tan Hospital, Capital Medical University, Tiantan Xili
6, Dongcheng District, Beijing 100050, China; China National Clinical Research
Center for Neurological Diseases, NCRC-ND, Tiantan Xili 6, Dongcheng District,
Beijing 100050, China. Electronic address: jgjttyy@aliyun.com. (9)Skull Base and 
Brainstem Tumor Division, Department of Neurosurgery, Beijing Tian Tan Hospital, 
Capital Medical University, Tiantan Xili 6, Dongcheng District, Beijing 100050,
China; China National Clinical Research Center for Neurological Diseases,
NCRC-ND, Tiantan Xili 6, Dongcheng District, Beijing 100050, China. Electronic
address: zlwtt@hotmail.com. (10)Key Laboratory of Genomic and Precision Medicine,
Beijing Institute of Genomics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101,
China. Electronic address: czeng@big.ac.cn. (11)Skull Base and Brainstem Tumor
Division, Department of Neurosurgery, Beijing Tian Tan Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Tiantan Xili 6, Dongcheng District, Beijing 100050, China; China
National Clinical Research Center for Neurological Diseases, NCRC-ND, Tiantan
Xili 6, Dongcheng District, Beijing 100050, China. Electronic address:
zhangjunting2003@aliyun.com.

The T gene plays a key role in chordoma pathology. To investigate the role of T
gene isoforms in chordoma, 22 skull base chordomas, three chordoma cell lines and
9 infant notochords, which were used as normal controls, were collected. We first
conducted droplet digital PCR to quantify the absolute expression levels of the
long and short isoforms of the T gene (T-long and T-short, respectively) and
revealed that T-long was dominantly expressed in all chordomas and chordoma cell 
lines, but not in the notochords. The T-long/T-short ratio was significantly
different between the chordomas and the notochords. Next, we validated the
isoform expression pattern at protein expression level using Western blot in 9
chordomas. Furthermore, the T gene single nucleotide polymorphism site rs2305089,
which is the only marker reported to be associated with chordomas, was sequenced 
in all of the chordoma samples. Association between rs2305089 and T-long/T-short 
ratio was not significant, indicating it was not involved in T gene alternative
splicing. In conclusion, two T gene isoforms were investigated in skull base
chordomas and chordoma cell lines, and the longer isoform was dominantly
expressed. The distinct expression patterns of these T gene isoforms may
contribute to the pathogenesis of skull base chordomas. However, further studies 
on the function of these isoforms are needed.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2015.09.178 
PMID: 26435504  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Clin Chem. 2015 Nov;61(11):1354-62. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2015.245357. Epub 2015 
Oct 2.

DMSO Increases Mutation Scanning Detection Sensitivity of High-Resolution Melting
in Clinical Samples.

Song C(1), Castellanos-Rizaldos E(1), Bejar R(2), Ebert BL(3), Makrigiorgos
GM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Brigham and
Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; (2)Division of Hematology
and Oncology, UCSD Moores Cancer Center, La Jolla, CA; (3)Division of Hematology,
Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA. (4)Department
of Radiation Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; mmakrigiorgos@lroc.harvard.edu.

BACKGROUND: Mutation scanning provides the simplest, lowest-cost method for
identifying DNA variations on single PCR amplicons, and it may be performed
before sequencing to avoid screening of noninformative wild-type samples.
High-resolution melting (HRM) is the most commonly used method for mutation
scanning. With PCR-HRM, however, mutations less abundant than approximately
3%-10% that can still be clinically significant may often be missed. Therefore,
enhancing HRM detection sensitivity is important for mutation scanning and its
clinical application.
METHODS: We used serial dilution of cell lines containing the TP53 exon 8
mutation to demonstrate the improvement in detection sensitivity for
conventional-PCR-HRM in the presence of DMSO. We also conducted coamplification
at lower denaturation temperature (COLD)-PCR with an extra step for
cross-hybridization, followed by preferential denaturation and amplification at
optimized critical temperature (full-COLD-PCR), to further enrich low-level
mutations before HRM with or without DMSO, and we used droplet-digital PCR to
derive the optimal conditions for mutation enrichment. Both conventional PCR-HRM 
and full-COLD-PCR-HRM with and without DMSO were used for mutation scanning of
TP53 exon 8 in cancer samples containing known mutations and myelodysplastic
syndrome samples with unknown mutations. Mutations in other genes were also
examined.
RESULTS: The detection sensitivity of PCR-HRM scanning increases 2- to 5-fold in 
the presence of DMSO, depending on mutation type and sequence context, and can
typically detect mutation abundance of approximately 1%. When mutation enrichment
is applied during amplification with full-COLD-PCR followed by HRM in the
presence of DMSO, mutations with 0.2%-0.3% abundance in TP53 exon 8 can be
detected.
CONCLUSIONS: DMSO improves HRM mutation scanning sensitivity with saturating
dyes. When full-COLD-PCR is used, followed by DMSO-HRM, the overall improvement
is about 20-fold compared with conventional PCR-HRM.

© 2015 American Association for Clinical Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2015.245357 
PMCID: PMC5156568
PMID: 26432802  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: COLD-PCR is a technology owned by the Dana-Farber
Cancer Institute and has been commercially licensed. The manuscript has not been 
published previously and is not being considered concurrently by another journal.
All authors and acknowledged contributors have read and approved the manuscript.


630. PLoS One. 2015 Oct 2;10(10):e0139510. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0139510.
eCollection 2015.

Comparative Analysis of Cell-Associated HIV DNA Levels in Cerebrospinal Fluid and
Peripheral Blood by Droplet Digital PCR.

de Oliveira MF(1), Gianella S(1), Letendre S(2), Scheffler K(3), Kosakovsky Pond 
SL(1), Smith DM(4), Strain M(1), Ellis RJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California, United States of
America. (2)HIV Neurobehavioral Research Center, University of California, San
Diego, San Diego, California, United States of America. (3)University of
California, San Diego, La Jolla, California, United States of America;
Stellenbosch University, Stellenbosch, South Africa. (4)University of California,
San Diego, La Jolla, California, United States of America; Veterans Affairs San
Diego Healthcare System, San Diego, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Measurement of HIV DNA-bearing cells in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is 
challenging because few cells are present. We present a novel application of the 
sensitive droplet digital (dd)PCR in this context.
METHODS: We analyzed CSF cell pellets and paired peripheral blood mononuclear
cells (PBMC) from 28 subjects, 19 of whom had undetectable HIV RNA (<48
copies/mL) in both compartments. We extracted DNA from PBMC using silica-based
columns and used direct lysis on CSF cells. HIV DNA and the host housekeeping
gene (RPP30) were measured in CSF and PBMC by (dd)PCR. We compared HIV DNA levels
in virally-suppressed and-unsuppressed subgroups and calculated correlations
between HIV DNA and RNA levels in both compartments using non-parametric tests.
RESULTS: HIV DNA was detected in 18/28 (64%) CSF cell pellets, including 10/19
(53%) samples with undetectable HIV RNA. HIV DNA levels in CSF cell pellets were 
not correlated with RPP30 (p = 0.3), but correlated positively with HIV RNA in
CSF (p = 0.04) and HIV DNA in PBMC (p = 0.03). Cellular HIV DNA in CSF was
detected in comparable levels in HIV RNA-suppressed and unsuppressed subjects (p 
= 0.14). In contrast, HIV DNA levels in PBMC were significantly lower in HIV
RNA-suppressed than in unsuppressed subjects (p = 0.014). Among subjects with
detectable HIV DNA in both compartments, HIV DNA levels in CSF were significantly
higher than in PBMC (p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Despite low mononuclear cell numbers in CSF, HIV DNA was detected in
most virally suppressed individuals. In contrast to PBMC, suppressive ART was not
associated with lower HIV DNA levels in CSF cells, compared to no ART, perhaps
due to poorer ART penetration, slower decay of HIV DNA, or enrichment of HIV
DNA-bearing mononuclear cells into the CSF, compared to blood. Future studies
should determine what fraction of HIV DNA is replication-competent in CSF
leukocytes, compared to PBMC.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0139510 
PMCID: PMC4592012
PMID: 26431315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. J Neurovirol. 2016 Apr;22(2):191-200. doi: 10.1007/s13365-015-0384-5. Epub 2015
Oct 1.

Cell-free mitochondrial DNA in CSF is associated with early viral rebound,
inflammation, and severity of neurocognitive deficits in HIV infection.

Pérez-Santiago J(1), Schrier RD(2), de Oliveira MF(2), Gianella S(2), Var SR(2), 
Day TR(2), Ramirez-Gaona M(3), Suben JD(2), Murrell B(2), Massanella M(2),
Cherner M(2), Smith DM(2,)(4), Ellis RJ(2), Letendre SL(2), Mehta SR(2,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)University of California San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive MC 0679, La Jolla, CA,
92093-0679, USA. joperez@ucsd.edu. (2)University of California San Diego, 9500
Gilman Drive MC 0679, La Jolla, CA, 92093-0679, USA. (3)University of Alberta,
Edmonton, AB, Canada. (4)Veterans Administration San Diego Healthcare System, San
Diego, CA, USA.

Cell-free mitochondiral DNA (mtDNA) is an immunogenic molecule associated with
many inflammatory conditions. We evaluated the relationship between cell-free
mtDNA in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and neurocognitive performance and
inflammation during HIV infection. In a cross-sectional analysis, we evaluated
the association of mtDNA levels with clinical assessments, inflammatory markers, 
and neurocognitive performance in 28 HIV-infected individuals. In CSF, we
measured mtDNA levels by droplet digital PCR, and soluble CD14 and CD163,
neurofilament light, and neopterin by ELISA. In blood and CSF, we measured
soluble IP-10, MCP-1, TNF-α, and IL-6 by ELISA, and intracellular expression of
IL-2, IFN-γ, and TNF-α in CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells by flow cytometry. We also
evaluated the relationship between CSF pleocytosis and mtDNA longitudinally in
another set of five individuals participating in an antiretroviral treatment
(ART) interruption study. Cell-free CSF mtDNA levels strongly correlated with
neurocognitive performance among individuals with neurocognitive impairment (NCI)
(r = 0.77, p = 0.001). CSF mtDNA also correlated with levels of IP-10 in CSF
(r = 0.70, p = 0.007) and MCP-1 in blood plasma (r = 0.66, p = 0.01) in
individuals with NCI. There were no significant associations between inflammatory
markers and mtDNA in subjects without NCI, and levels of mtDNA did not differ
between subjects with and without NCI. MtDNA levels preceded pleocytosis and HIV 
RNA following ART interruption. Cell-free mtDNA in CSF was strongly associated
with the severity of neurocognitive dysfunction and inflammation only in
individuals with NCI. Our findings suggest that within a subset of subjects
cell-free CSF mtDNA is associated with inflammation and degree of NCI.

DOI: 10.1007/s13365-015-0384-5 
PMCID: PMC4862614 [Available on 2017-04-01]
PMID: 26428514  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. PLoS One. 2015 Sep 28;10(9):e0139074. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0139074.
eCollection 2015.

Efficient Genotyping of KRAS Mutant Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Using a
Multiplexed Droplet Digital PCR Approach.

Pender A(1), Garcia-Murillas I(2), Rana S(3), Cutts RJ(2), Kelly G(4), Fenwick
K(2), Kozarewa I(2), Gonzalez de Castro D(5), Bhosle J(6), O'Brien M(6), Turner
NC(7), Popat S(6), Downward J(8).

Author information: 
(1)Lung Cancer Group, Division of Molecular Pathology, The Institute of Cancer
Research, London, United Kingdom; Department of Medicine, The Royal Marsden NHS
Foundation Trust, London, United Kingdom; The Francis Crick Institute, London,
United Kingdom. (2)The Breakthrough Breast Cancer Research Centre, The Institute 
of Cancer Research, London, United Kingdom. (3)Lung Cancer Group, Division of
Molecular Pathology, The Institute of Cancer Research, London, United Kingdom.
(4)The Francis Crick Institute, London, United Kingdom. (5)The Centre for
Molecular Pathology, The Institute of Cancer Research, Sutton, United Kingdom.
(6)Department of Medicine, The Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust, London, United
Kingdom. (7)Department of Medicine, The Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust,
London, United Kingdom; The Breakthrough Breast Cancer Research Centre, The
Institute of Cancer Research, London, United Kingdom. (8)Lung Cancer Group,
Division of Molecular Pathology, The Institute of Cancer Research, London, United
Kingdom; The Francis Crick Institute, London, United Kingdom.

Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) can be used to detect low frequency mutations in
oncogene-driven lung cancer. The range of KRAS point mutations observed in NSCLC 
necessitates a multiplex approach to efficient mutation detection in circulating 
DNA. Here we report the design and optimisation of three discriminatory ddPCR
multiplex assays investigating nine different KRAS mutations using PrimePCR™
ddPCR™ Mutation Assays and the Bio-Rad QX100 system. Together these mutations
account for 95% of the nucleotide changes found in KRAS in human cancer.
Multiplex reactions were optimised on genomic DNA extracted from KRAS mutant cell
lines and tested on DNA extracted from fixed tumour tissue from a cohort of lung 
cancer patients without prior knowledge of the specific KRAS genotype. The
multiplex ddPCR assays had a limit of detection of better than 1 mutant KRAS
molecule in 2,000 wild-type KRAS molecules, which compared favourably with a
limit of detection of 1 in 50 for next generation sequencing and 1 in 10 for
Sanger sequencing. Multiplex ddPCR assays thus provide a highly efficient
methodology to identify KRAS mutations in lung adenocarcinoma.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0139074 
PMCID: PMC4586384
PMID: 26413866  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Acta Vet Scand. 2015 Sep 25;57:55. doi: 10.1186/s13028-015-0148-5.

Experimental infection of cattle with ovine Dichelobacter nodosus isolates.

Knappe-Poindecker M(1), Jørgensen HJ(2), Jensen TK(3), Tesfamichael B(4), Ulvund 
MJ(5), Hektoen L(6), Fjeldaas T(7).

Author information: 
(1)Norwegian University of Life Sciences, PO Box 8146, 0033, Oslo, Norway.
knappemaren@gmail.com. (2)Norwegian Veterinary Institute, PO Box 750, 0106, Oslo,
Norway. hannah.joan.jorgensen@gmail.com. (3)National Veterinary Institute,
Technical University of Denmark, Bülowsvej 27, 1870, Frederiksberg C, Denmark.
tije@vet.dtu.dk. (4)Norwegian Veterinary Institute, PO Box 750, 0106, Oslo,
Norway. bereket.tesfamichael@vetinst.no. (5)Norwegian University of Life
Sciences, Campus Sandnes, Kyrkjevegen 332/334, 4325, Sandnes, Norway.
martha.ulvund@nmbu.no. (6)Norwegian Sheep Health Service, Animalia, PO Box 396,
Økern, 0513, Oslo, Norway. lisbeth.hektoen@animalia.no. (7)Norwegian University
of Life Sciences, PO Box 8146, 0033, Oslo, Norway. terje.fjeldaas@nmbu.no.

BACKGROUND: Dichelobacter nodosus is the main causative agent of ovine footrot,
and there are strong indications that the bacterium can be transferred to cattle 
grazing on the same pasture as sheep. The aim of this study was to investigate if
benign and virulent D. nodosus strains isolated from sheep can be transferred to 
the interdigital skin of cattle under experimental conditions. Further, we wanted
to observe the impact of such infection on bovine foot health, and test the
effect of topical chlortetracycline (Cyclo spray(®): Eurovet) on the infection.
FINDINGS: Six heifers were included in the study. After an initial 18-day
maceration period, three heifers were inoculated on one single foot with a benign
strain and three with a virulent strain by adding bacterial suspension in a
bandage. The bandages were left on for 17 days, and when removed, D. nodosus was 
isolated from all six heifers. All six heifers developed interdigital dermatitis.
In five of the heifers D. nodosus organisms were demonstrated within the
epidermis. Twenty-four days after treatment with chlortetracycline all heifers
were negative by cultivation, but tested positive for D. nodosus by polymerase
chain reaction (PCR). Two of the six heifers still tested positive for D. nodosus
by PCR 49 days after treatment. After 70 days, all heifers tested negative for D.
nodosus.
CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that both virulent and benign D. nodosus strains
originating from sheep can be transferred to naïve heifers under experimental
conditions. Further, the study supports the hypothesis that infections with
virulent D. nodosus in cattle are associated with interdigital dermatitis. No
conclusion regarding the treatment of D. nodosus infection with chlortetracycline
was possible.

DOI: 10.1186/s13028-015-0148-5 
PMCID: PMC4582627
PMID: 26407552  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. J Vet Diagn Invest. 2015 Nov;27(6):784-8. doi: 10.1177/1040638715608358. Epub
2015 Sep 21.

Sensitive detection of Porcine circovirus-2 by droplet digital polymerase chain
reaction.

Zhao S(1), Lin H(1), Chen S(1), Yang M(1), Yan Q(2), Wen C(1), Hao Z(1), Yan
Y(1), Sun Y(1), Hu J(1), Chen Z(1), Xi L(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine (Zhao, Q Yan, Wen, Hao, Z Chen, Xi) and Key
Laboratory of Animal Disease and Human Health of Sichuan Province (Q Yan),
Sichuan Agricultural University, Chengdu, ChinaSichuan Entry-Exit Inspection and 
Quarantine Bureau, Chengdu, China (Lin, S Chen, Yang, Y Yan, Sun, Hu). (2)College
of Veterinary Medicine (Zhao, Q Yan, Wen, Hao, Z Chen, Xi) and Key Laboratory of 
Animal Disease and Human Health of Sichuan Province (Q Yan), Sichuan Agricultural
University, Chengdu, ChinaSichuan Entry-Exit Inspection and Quarantine Bureau,
Chengdu, China (Lin, S Chen, Yang, Y Yan, Sun, Hu) yanqigui@126.com.

Sensitive detection of Porcine circovirus-2 (PCV-2) is very important for
surveillance of postweaning multisystemic wasting syndrome. Droplet digital
polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR) is novel PCR method that can achieve high
precision. Our study aimed to develop a sensitive assay utilizing ddPCR to detect
PCV-2. Specificity of the assay was confirmed by the failure of amplification of 
DNA of other relevant viruses. The detection limit for ddPCR was 25 copies/μL, a 
4-fold greater sensitivity than TaqMan real-time PCR. Both methods showed a high 
degree of linearity (R(2) = ~1), although TaqMan real-time PCR showed less
sensitivity than ddPCR for clinical detection. Our findings indicate that ddPCR
might represent a promising platform for detecting PCV-2 viral loads.

© 2015 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1177/1040638715608358 
PMID: 26391713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. IEEE Trans Biomed Circuits Syst. 2016 Jun;10(3):654-67. doi:
10.1109/TBCAS.2015.2453791. Epub 2015 Sep 16.

Neurochemostat: A Neural Interface SoC With Integrated Chemometrics for
Closed-Loop Regulation of Brain Dopamine.

Bozorgzadeh B, Schuweiler DR, Bobak MJ, Garris PA, Mohseni P.

This paper presents a 3.3×3.2 mm(2) system-on-chip (SoC) fabricated in AMS 0.35
μm 2P/4M CMOS for closed-loop regulation of brain dopamine. The SoC uniquely
integrates neurochemical sensing, on-the-fly chemometrics, and
feedback-controlled electrical stimulation to realize a "neurochemostat" by
maintaining brain levels of electrically evoked dopamine between two user-set
thresholds. The SoC incorporates a 90 μW, custom-designed, digital signal
processing (DSP) unit for real-time processing of neurochemical data obtained by 
400 V/s fast-scan cyclic voltammetry (FSCV) with a carbon-fiber microelectrode
(CFM). Specifically, the DSP unit executes a chemometrics algorithm based upon
principal component regression (PCR) to resolve in real time electrically evoked 
brain dopamine levels from pH change and CFM background-current drift, two common
interferents encountered using FSCV with a CFM in vivo. Further, the DSP unit
directly links the chemically resolved dopamine levels to the activation of the
electrical microstimulator in on-off-keying (OOK) fashion. Measured results from 
benchtop testing, flow injection analysis (FIA), and biological experiments with 
an anesthetized rat are presented.

DOI: 10.1109/TBCAS.2015.2453791 
PMCID: PMC4809062 [Available on 2017-06-01]
PMID: 26390501  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Mol Genet Genomics. 2016 Feb;291(1):383-98. doi: 10.1007/s00438-015-1116-5. Epub 
2015 Sep 20.

Gene transcript profiles in the desert plant Nitraria tangutorum during fruit
development and ripening.

Wang J(1), Dang Z(1), Zhang H(1), Zheng L(1), Borjigin T(1,)(2), Wang Y(3).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Sciences, Inner Mongolia University, Hohhot, 010021, People's 
Republic of China. (2)College of Mongolian Medicine, Inner Mongolia Medical
University, Hohhot, 010110, People's Republic of China. (3)College of Life
Sciences, Inner Mongolia University, Hohhot, 010021, People's Republic of China. 
ycwang@imu.edu.cn.

Nitraria tangutorum Bobr., a valuable wild shrub distributed in Northwest China, 
produces edible and medicinal berries. However, little is known about the
molecular mechanisms of its fruit development and ripening. We performed de novo 
transcriptome sequencing of N. tangutorum fruit using the Illumina HiSeq™ 2000
sequencing platform. More than 62.94 million reads were obtained and assembled
into 69,306 unigenes (average length, 587 bp). These unigenes were annotated by
querying against five databases (Nr, Swiss-Prot, GO, COG, and KEGG); 42,929 and
26,809 unigenes were found in the Nr and Swiss-Prot databases, respectively. In
ortholog analyses, 33,363 unigenes were assigned with one or more GO terms,
15,537 hits were aligned to 25 COG classes, and 24,592 unigenes were classified
into 128 KEGG pathways. Digital gene expression analyses were conducted on N.
tangutorum fruit at the green (S1), yellow (S2), and red (S3) developmental
stages. In total, 8240, 5985, and 4994 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were
detected for S1 vs. S2, S1 vs. S3, and S2 vs. S3, respectively. Cluster analyses 
showed that a large proportion of DEGs related to plant hormones and
transcription factors (TFs) showed high expression in S1, down-regulated
expression in S2, and up-regulated expression in S3. We analyzed the expression
patterns of 23 genes encoding 12 putative enzymes involved in flavonoid
biosynthesis. The expression profiles of 10 DEGs involved in flavonoid
biosynthesis were validated by Q-PCR analysis. The assembled and annotated
transcriptome sequences and gene expression profile analyses provide valuable
genetic resources for research on N. tangutorum.

DOI: 10.1007/s00438-015-1116-5 
PMID: 26388259  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. J Pediatr Surg. 2015 Dec;50(12):2094-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2015.08.033. Epub
2015 Aug 28.

Circulating free DNA as non-invasive diagnostic biomarker for childhood solid
tumors.

Kurihara S(1), Ueda Y(1), Onitake Y(1), Sueda T(1), Ohta E(2), Morihara N(2),
Hirano S(2), Irisuna F(2), Hiyama E(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatric Surgery, Hiroshima University Hospital, Hiroshima
734-8551 Japan. (2)Natural Science Center for Basic Research and Development
(N-BARD), Hiroshima University, Hiroshima, Japan. (3)Department of Pediatric
Surgery, Hiroshima University Hospital, Hiroshima 734-8551 Japan; Natural Science
Center for Basic Research and Development (N-BARD), Hiroshima University,
Hiroshima, Japan. Electronic address: eiso@hiroshima-u.ac.jp.

PURPOSE: Our aims are to determine circulating free DNA (cfDNA) in childhood
solid tumor patients who underwent surgical intervention and to analyze any
relationships with clinical parameters.
METHODS: Fourty-four consenting children admitted with solid tumors between 2010 
and 2014 were recruited. CfDNAs isolated from 0.5mL plasma obtained before and
1-30days after surgery were analyzed by next-generation sequencing (NGS:
IonTorrent Cancer Hotspot panel) and by gene amplification analysis using a
digital PCR (dPCR) platform.
RESULTS: Total amounts of cfDNA were 54-825ng and were significantly associated
with stage of disease. In cfDNA, 15 mutations or deletions (2 ALK, 2 TP53, 1 WT1,
3 CTNNB1, 1 APC, 1 KIT, 1 RET, 1 CDNK2AT, and 3 SMARCB1) were identified. In 10
neuroblastoma suspected cases, 2 showed high copy numbers of MYCN using dPCR. The
positive rate in our cohort was 36%, and all of these aberrations were detected
in the original tumors. None of the aberrations were detectable in cfDNA after
surgery except for three cases whose tumors remained after surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: These data demonstrate the feasibility and potential utility of
mutation/deletion/amplification screening in cfDNA using NGS and dPCR for the
detection of tumor biomarkers in children with solid tumors. These markers also
have the potential utility to evaluate complete resection after surgery.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2015.08.033 
PMID: 26388126  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Int J Mol Sci. 2015 Sep 11;16(9):21989-2007. doi: 10.3390/ijms160921989.

Identification of Ramie Genes in Response to Pratylenchus coffeae Infection
Challenge by Digital Gene Expression Analysis.

Yu Y(1), Zeng L(2), Yan Z(3), Liu T(4), Sun K(5), Zhu T(6), Zhu A(7).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Bast Fiber Crops, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences,
Changsha 410205, China. yuyongting@caas.cn. (2)Institute of Bast Fiber Crops,
Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Changsha 410205, China.
zengliangbin@caas.cn. (3)Institute of Bast Fiber Crops, Chinese Academy of
Agricultural Sciences, Changsha 410205, China. yanzhuntoronto@gmail.com.
(4)Institute of Bast Fiber Crops, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences,
Changsha 410205, China. liutouming@caas.cn. (5)Institute of Bast Fiber Crops,
Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Changsha 410205, China. sunkai@caas.cn.
(6)Institute of Bast Fiber Crops, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences,
Changsha 410205, China. zhtt1988@126.com. (7)Institute of Bast Fiber Crops,
Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Changsha 410205, China.
zhuaiguo@caas.cn.

Root lesion disease, caused by Pratylenchus coffeae, seriously impairs the growth
and yield of ramie, an important natural fiber crop. The ramie defense mechanism 
against P. coffeae infection is poorly understood, which hinders efforts to
improve resistance via breeding programs. In this study, the transcriptome of the
resistant ramie cultivar Qingdaye was characterized using Illumina sequence
technology. About 46.3 million clean pair end (PE) reads were generated and
assembled into 40,826 unigenes with a mean length of 830 bp. Digital gene
expression (DGE) analysis was performed on both the control roots (CK) and P.
coffeae-challenged roots (CH), and the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were
identified. Approximately 10.16 and 8.07 million cDNA reads in the CK and CH cDNA
libraries were sequenced, respectively. A total of 137 genes exhibited different 
transcript abundances between the two libraries. Among them, the expressions of
117 and 20 DEGs were up- and down-regulated in P. coffeae-challenged ramie,
respectively. The expression patterns of 15 candidate genes determined by qRT-PCR
confirmed the results of DGE analysis. Time-course expression profiles of eight
defense-related genes in susceptible and resistant ramie cultivars were different
after P. coffeae inoculation. The differential expression of protease inhibitors,
pathogenesis-related proteins (PRs), and transcription factors in resistant and
susceptible ramie during P. coffeae infection indicated that cystatin likely
plays an important role in nematode resistance.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms160921989 
PMCID: PMC4613293
PMID: 26378527  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Clin Chem. 2015 Nov;61(11):1408-16. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2015.238543. Epub 2015 
Sep 16.

Variant Profiling of Candidate Genes in Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma.

Huang J(1), Löhr JM(2), Nilsson M(2), Segersvärd R(2), Matsson H(3), Verbeke
C(4), Heuchel R(2), Kere J(3), Iafrate AJ(5), Zheng Z(6), Ye W(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics and. (2)Center for
Digestive Diseases, Division of Surgery, CLINTEC, and. (3)Department of
Biosciences and Nutrition and Center for Innovative Medicine (CIMED), Karolinska 
Institutet, Huddinge, Sweden; (4)Division of Pathology, Department of Laboratory 
Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden; Clinical Pathology/Cytology, 
Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden; (5)Department of Pathology,
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA; (6)Department of Medical Epidemiology
and Biostatistics and Department of Pathology, Massachusetts General Hospital,
Boston, MA; Current address: Department of Biomedical Sciences, City University
of Hong Kong, Hong Kong. zhengzongli@gmail.com weimin.ye@ki.se. (7)Department of 
Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics and zhengzongli@gmail.com weimin.ye@ki.se.

BACKGROUND: Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) has a poor prognosis. Variant
profiling is crucial for developing personalized treatment and elucidating the
etiology of this disease.
METHODS: Patients with PDAC undergoing surgery from 2007 to 2012 (n = 73) were
followed from diagnosis until death or the end of the study. We applied an
anchored multiplex PCR (AMP)-based next-generation sequencing (NGS) method to a
panel of 65 selected genes and assessed analytical performance by sequencing a
quantitative multiplex DNA reference standard. In clinical PDAC samples,
detection of low-level KRAS (Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog)
mutations was validated by allele-specific PCR and digital PCR. We compared
overall survival of patients according to KRAS mutation status by log-rank test
and applied logistic regression to evaluate the association between smoking and
tumor variant types.
RESULTS: The AMP-based NGS method could detect variants with allele frequencies
as low as 1% given sufficient sequencing depth (>1500×). Low-frequency KRAS G12
mutations (allele frequency 1%-5%) were all confirmed by allele-specific PCR and 
digital PCR. The most prevalent genetic alterations were in KRAS (78% of
patients), TP53 (tumor protein p53) (25%), and SMAD4 (SMAD family member 4) (8%).
Overall survival in T3-stage PDAC patients differed among KRAS mutation subtypes 
(P = 0.019). Transversion variants were more common in ever-smokers than in
never-smokers (odds ratio 5.7; 95% CI 1.2-27.8).
CONCLUSIONS: The AMP-based NGS method is applicable for profiling tumor variants.
Using this approach, we demonstrated that in PDAC patients, KRAS mutant subtype
G12V is associated with poorer survival, and that transversion variants are more 
common among smokers.

© 2015 American Association for Clinical Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2015.238543 
PMID: 26378065  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Artif Cells Nanomed Biotechnol. 2016 Aug;44(5):1298-302. doi:
10.3109/21691401.2015.1029621. Epub 2015 Sep 16.

Cellular compatibility of magnetic nanocomposites.

Chen JL(1,)(2), Zhu W(3,)(4,)(2), Guo D(3,)(4,)(2), Xu W(3), Chen Y(4,)(2), Xiong
J(4), Lu W(4), Duan L(2), You W(5), Wang D(3,)(4,)(2,)(5), Zeng Y(6).

Author information: 
(1)a School of Medicine, Sun Yat-sen University , Guangzhou 510182, Guangdong
Province, China. (2)d Shenzhen Tissue Engineering Laboratory, Shenzhen Second
People's Hospital , Shenzhen , P. R. China. (3)b Department of Sports Medicine , 
The A liated Clinical College Shenzhen Second People's Hospital, Anhui Medical
University , Hefei , P. R. China. (4)c Department of Sports Medicine , The First 
A liated Hospital of Shenzhen University (Shenzhen Second People's Hospital) ,
Shenzhen , P. R. China. (5)e Shenzhen Digital Orthopaedic Technology Engineering 
Laboratory, Shenzhen Second People's Hospital , Shenzhen , P. R. China. (6)f
Biomechanics and Medical Information Institute, Beijing University of Technology 
, Beijing , P. R. China.

OBJECTIVE: To study the cellular compatibility of the magnetic nanocomposite
(n-HA/PLLA/Fe2O3) and to discuss the biological behaviors of cells including
surface adhesion, proliferation, and expression. The present work provides an
experimental basis for medical application.
METHOD: Rat osteoblasts (OB) were co-cultured with the magnetic nanocomposite.
Cell proliferation, cell adhesion, and the expression of type I collagen (Col-I) 
and osteocalcin (OCN) gene were characterized by the cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) 
method, scanning electronic microscopy (SEM), and reverse transcription
polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), respectively.
RESULTS: CCK-8 detection showed that there was no difference in cell
proliferation on the magnetic nanocomposite between the experimental group and
control group (P > 0.05). SEM indicated that a large amount of cells adhered to
the surface and in the pores of the magnetic nanocomposite. As the co-culture
time increased, the cells adhering to the magnetic nanocomposite showed an
obvious increase. RT-PCR detection showed that as the co-culture time increased, 
the expression of the Col-I gene was enhanced (P 0.05). There was no obvious
difference in the expression of the OCN gene (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The magnetic nanocomposite is suitable for cell adhesion, growth, and
differentiation with a high cellular compatibility.

DOI: 10.3109/21691401.2015.1029621 
PMID: 26375872  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Nat Commun. 2015 Sep 16;6:8258. doi: 10.1038/ncomms9258.

Targeted sequencing reveals clonal genetic changes in the progression of early
lung neoplasms and paired circulating DNA.

Izumchenko E(1), Chang X(1), Brait M(1), Fertig E(2), Kagohara LT(1), Bedi A(1), 
Marchionni L(3), Agrawal N(1), Ravi R(1), Jones S(4), Hoque MO(1), Westra WH(5), 
Sidransky D(1,)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otolaryngology and Head and Neck Surgery, Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21231, USA. (2)Division of
Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA. (3)Center for Computational Genomics, Johns
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21231, USA.
(4)Personal Genome Diagnostics, Inc., 2809 Boston Street, Suite 503, Baltimore,
Maryland 21224, USA. (5)Department of Pathology, Johns Hopkins Medical
Institutions, Baltimore, Maryland 21231, USA. (6)Department of Oncology, Johns
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21231, USA.

Lungs resected for adenocarcinomas often harbour minute discrete foci of
cytologically atypical pneumocyte proliferations designated as atypical
adenomatous hyperplasia (AAH). Evidence suggests that AAH represents an initial
step in the progression to adenocarcinoma in situ (AIS), minimally invasive
adenocarcinoma (MIA) and fully invasive adenocarcinoma. Despite efforts to
identify predictive markers of malignant transformation, alterations driving this
progression are poorly understood. Here we perform targeted next-generation
sequencing on multifocal AAHs and different zones of histologic progression
within AISs and MIAs. Multiregion sequencing demonstrated different genetic
drivers within the same tumour and reveal that clonal expansion is an early event
of tumorigenesis. We find that KRAS, TP53 and EGFR mutations are indicators of
malignant transition. Utilizing droplet digital PCR, we find alterations
associated with early neoplasms in paired circulating DNA. This study provides
insight into the heterogeneity of clonal events in the progression of early lung 
neoplasia and demonstrates that these events can be detected even before
neoplasms have invaded and acquired malignant potential.

DOI: 10.1038/ncomms9258 
PMCID: PMC4595648
PMID: 26374070  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Anal Biochem. 2015 Dec 15;491:55-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ab.2015.08.030. Epub 2015 Sep 
11.

An integrated microfluidic system for bovine DNA purification and digital PCR
detection.

Tian Q(1), Mu Y(2), Xu Y(3), Song Q(3), Yu B(3), Ma C(3), Jin W(3), Jin Q(3).

Author information: 
(1)Research Center for Analytical Instrumentation, Institute of CyberSystems and 
Control, State Key Laboratory of Industrial Control Technology, Zhejiang
University, Hangzhou 310058, Zhejiang, PR China; College of Life Sciences,
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, Zhejiang, PR China. (2)Research Center for 
Analytical Instrumentation, Institute of CyberSystems and Control, State Key
Laboratory of Industrial Control Technology, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou
310058, Zhejiang, PR China. Electronic address: muying@zju.edu.cn. (3)Research
Center for Analytical Instrumentation, Institute of CyberSystems and Control,
State Key Laboratory of Industrial Control Technology, Zhejiang University,
Hangzhou 310058, Zhejiang, PR China.

In this paper, we described an integrated modularized microfluidic system that
contained two distinct functional modules, one for nucleic acids (NA) extraction 
and the other for digital PCR (dPCR), allowing for detecting the bovine DNA in
ovine tissue.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ab.2015.08.030 
PMID: 26364950  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Eur J Surg Oncol. 2015 Nov;41(11):1456-63. doi: 10.1016/j.ejso.2015.08.156. Epub 
2015 Aug 29.

Nonoperative management of rectal cancer after chemoradiation opposed to
resection after complete clinical response. A comparative study.

Araujo RO(1), Valadão M(2), Borges D(2), Linhares E(2), de Jesus JP(2), Ferreira 
CG(3), Victorino AP(3), Vieira FM(4), Albagli R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Abdominal and Pelvic Surgery, National Institute of Cancer -
INCA, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Electronic address: raraujooncologia@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Abdominal and Pelvic Surgery, National Institute of Cancer -
INCA, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. (3)Clinical Oncology and Applied Research Centre,
National Institute of Cancer - INCA, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. (4)Clínicas
Oncológicas Integradas - COI, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

INTRODUCTION: Surgery is the standard treatment of rectal cancer after
neoadjuvant therapy. Some authors advocate a nonoperative management (NOM) after 
complete clinical response (cCR) following chemoradiotherapy (CRT). We compare
our results with NOM to standard resection in a retrospective analysis.
METHODS: Rectal adenocarcinomas submitted to NOM after CRT between September 2002
and December 2013 were compared to surgical patients that had pathological
complete response (pCR) during the same period. Endpoints were Overall Survival
(OS), Disease Free Survival (DFS), Local Relapse (LR) and Distant Relapse (DR).
RESULTS: Forty-two NOM patients compared to 69 pCR patients operated after a
median interval of 35 weeks after CRT. NOM tumors were distal (83.3% vs 59.4%,
p = 0.011), less obstructive (26.2% vs 54.4%, p = 0.005) and had a lower digital 
rectal score (p = 0.024). Twelve (28.0%) recurrences in NOM group and eight
(11.5%) in the surgical group occurred after a follow-up of 47.7 and 46.7 months 
respectively. Isolated LR occurred in five (11%) NOM patients and one (1.4%) in
the surgical group. Four (80%) LR were surgically salvaged in NOM group. No
difference in OS was found (71.6% vs 89.9%, p = 0.316) but there was a higher DFS
favoring surgical group (60.9% vs 82.8%, p = 0.011). Distal tumors had worse OS
compared to proximal tumors in surgical group (5-year OS of 85.5% vs 96.2%,
p = 0.038).
CONCLUSION: The NOM achieved OS comparable to surgical treatment and spared
patients from surgical morbidity but it resulted in more recurrences. This
approach cannot be advocated routinely and controlled trials are warranted.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejso.2015.08.156 
PMID: 26362228  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Nucleic Acids Res. 2016 Jan 29;44(2):e10. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkv877. Epub 2015 Sep 
10.

Lack of correlation between reaction speed and analytical sensitivity in
isothermal amplification reveals the value of digital methods for optimization:
validation using digital real-time RT-LAMP.

Khorosheva EM(1), Karymov MA(1), Selck DA(1), Ismagilov RF(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, California Institute of
Technology, 1200 East California Blvd., Pasadena, CA 91125, USA. (2)Division of
Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, California Institute of Technology, 1200 East
California Blvd., Pasadena, CA 91125, USA rustem.admin@caltech.edu.

In this paper, we asked if it is possible to identify the best primers and
reaction conditions based on improvements in reaction speed when optimizing
isothermal reactions. We used digital single-molecule, real-time analyses of both
speed and efficiency of isothermal amplification reactions, which revealed that
improvements in the speed of isothermal amplification reactions did not always
correlate with improvements in digital efficiency (the fraction of molecules that
amplify) or with analytical sensitivity. However, we observed that the speeds of 
amplification for single-molecule (in a digital device) and multi-molecule (e.g. 
in a PCR well plate) formats always correlated for the same conditions. Also,
digital efficiency correlated with the analytical sensitivity of the same
reaction performed in a multi-molecule format. Our finding was supported
experimentally with examples of primer design, the use or exclusion of loop
primers in different combinations, and the use of different enzyme mixtures in
one-step reverse-transcription loop-mediated amplification (RT-LAMP). Our results
show that measuring the digital efficiency of amplification of single-template
molecules allows quick, reliable comparisons of the analytical sensitivity of
reactions under any two tested conditions, independent of the speeds of the
isothermal amplification reactions.

© The Author(s) 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic
Acids Research.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkv877 
PMCID: PMC4737171
PMID: 26358811  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Expert Rev Mol Diagn. 2015;15(10):1261-8. doi: 10.1586/14737159.2015.1084227.
Epub 2015 Sep 10.

The impact of digital DNA counting technologies on noninvasive prenatal testing.

Sun K(1), Jiang P(1), Chan KC.

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Chemical Pathology, The Chinese University of Hong Kong,
Prince of Wales Hospital, Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong SAR, China.

The discovery of cell-free DNA molecules in maternal plasma has opened up
numerous opportunities for noninvasive prenatal testing. The advent of new
digital counting technologies, including digital polymerase chain reaction and
massive parallel sequencing, has provided the opportunity to quantify the
cell-free DNA molecules in maternal plasma in an unprecedentedly precise manner. 
Powered by these technologies, prenatal testing of different kinds of hereditary 
conditions, ranging from monogenic diseases to chromosome aneuploidies, has been 
shown to be possible through the analysis of maternal plasma DNA. Discussed here 
are the principles of the approaches used in the noninvasive testing of different
fetal conditions, with an emphasis on the impact that different digital DNA
counting strategies have made on the development of these tests.

DOI: 10.1586/14737159.2015.1084227 
PMID: 26358092  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Clin Chem. 2015 Nov;61(11):1399-407. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2015.239137. Epub 2015
Sep 9.

Fetal Sex and RHD Genotyping with Digital PCR Demonstrates Greater Sensitivity
than Real-time PCR.

Sillence KA(1), Roberts LA(2), Hollands HJ(2), Thompson HP(1), Kiernan M(1),
Madgett TE(1), Welch CR(2), Avent ND(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biomedical and Healthcare Sciences, Plymouth University, Plymouth
University Peninsula Schools of Medicine and Dentistry, Plymouth, UK;
(2)Department of Fetal Medicine, Plymouth Hospitals National Health Service
Trust, Plymouth, UK. (3)School of Biomedical and Healthcare Sciences, Plymouth
University, Plymouth University Peninsula Schools of Medicine and Dentistry,
Plymouth, UK; neil.avent@plymouth.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Noninvasive genotyping of fetal RHD (Rh blood group, D antigen) can
prevent the unnecessary administration of prophylactic anti-D to women carrying
RHD-negative fetuses. We evaluated laboratory methods for such genotyping.
METHODS: Blood samples were collected in EDTA tubes and Streck® Cell-Free DNA™
blood collection tubes (Streck BCTs) from RHD-negative women (n = 46). Using
Y-specific and RHD-specific targets, we investigated variation in the cell-free
fetal DNA (cffDNA) fraction and determined the sensitivity achieved for optimal
and suboptimal samples with a novel Droplet Digital™ PCR (ddPCR) platform
compared with real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR).
RESULTS: The cffDNA fraction was significantly larger for samples collected in
Streck BCTs compared with samples collected in EDTA tubes (P < 0.001). In samples
expressing optimal cffDNA fractions (≥4%), both qPCR and digital PCR (dPCR)
showed 100% sensitivity for the TSPY1 (testis-specific protein, Y-linked 1) and
RHD7 (RHD exon 7) assays. Although dPCR also had 100% sensitivity for RHD5 (RHD
exon 5), qPCR had reduced sensitivity (83%) for this target. For samples
expressing suboptimal cffDNA fractions (<2%), dPCR achieved 100% sensitivity for 
all assays, whereas qPCR achieved 100% sensitivity only for the TSPY1 (multicopy 
target) assay.
CONCLUSIONS: qPCR was not found to be an effective tool for RHD genotyping in
suboptimal samples (<2% cffDNA). However, when testing the same suboptimal
samples on the same day by dPCR, 100% sensitivity was achieved for both fetal sex
determination and RHD genotyping. Use of dPCR for identification of fetal
specific markers can reduce the occurrence of false-negative and inconclusive
results, particularly when samples express high levels of background maternal
cell-free DNA.

© 2015 American Association for Clinical Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2015.239137 
PMID: 26354802  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Cancer Sci. 2015 Nov;106(11):1582-9. doi: 10.1111/cas.12813. Epub 2015 Oct 30.

Prognostic role of PIK3CA mutations of cell-free DNA in early-stage triple
negative breast cancer.

Takeshita T(1), Yamamoto Y(2), Yamamoto-Ibusuki M(1), Inao T(1), Sueta A(2),
Fujiwara S(1), Omoto Y(1,)(3), Iwase H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Breast and Endocrine surgery, Graduate School of Medical
Science, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, Japan. (2)Department of
Molecular-Targeting Therapy for Breast Cancer, Kumamoto University Hospital,
Kumamoto, Japan. (3)Department of Endocrinological and Breast Surgery, Graduate
School of Medical Science, Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, Kyoto,
Japan.

PIK3CA is an oncogene that encodes the p110α component of phosphatidylinositol
3-kinase (PI3K); it is the second most frequently mutated gene following the TP53
gene. In the clinical setting, PIK3CA mutations may have favorable prognostic
value for hormone receptor-positive breast cancer patients and, during the past
few years, PIK3CA mutations of cell-free DNA (cfDNA) have attracted attention as 
a potential noninvasive biomarker of cancer. However, there are few reports on
the clinical implications of PIK3CA mutations for TNBC patients. We investigated 
the PIK3CA major mutation status of cfDNA as a noninvasive biomarker of cancer
using droplet digital polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR), which has high level
sensitivity and specificity for cancer mutation, in early-stage 49 triple
negative breast cancer (TNBC) patients. A total of 12 (24.4%) of 49 patients had 
PIK3CA mutations of cfDNA. In a median follow up of 54.4 months, the presence of 
PIK3CA mutations of cfDNA had significant impacts on relapse-free survival (RFS; 
P = 0.0072) and breast cancer-specific survival (BCSS; P = 0.016), according to
the log-lank test. In a Cox proportional hazards model, the presence of PIK3CA
mutations of cfDNA had significant prognostic value in the univariate and
multivariate analysis. Additionally, the presence of PIK3CA mutations of cfDNA
was significantly correlated with positive androgen receptor phosphorylated form 
depending on PI3K signaling pathway (pAR) which is independent favorable
prognostic factors of TNBC. We demonstrated that the presence of PIK3CA major
mutations of cfDNA could be a discriminatory predictor of RFS and BCSS in
early-stage TNBC patients and it was associated with PI3K pathway-dependent AR
phosphorylation.

© 2015 The Authors. Cancer Science published by Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd on 
behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.

DOI: 10.1111/cas.12813 
PMCID: PMC4714688
PMID: 26353837  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Sci Rep. 2015 Sep 9;5:13811. doi: 10.1038/srep13811.

Comparison of digital PCR platforms and semi-nested qPCR as a tool to determine
the size of the HIV reservoir.

Bosman KJ(1), Nijhuis M(1), van Ham PM(1), Wensing AM(1), Vervisch K(2),
Vandekerckhove L(2), De Spiegelaere W(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology, Virology, University Medical Centre
Utrecht, The Netherlands. (2)Department of Internal Medicine, HIV Translational
Research Unit, University Ghent &University Hospital Ghent, Belgium.

HIV persists in latently infected cells of patients on antiretroviral therapy
(ART). This persistent proviral DNA reservoir is an important predictor of viral 
rebound upon therapy failure or interruption and forms a major obstacle towards
cure. Accurate quantification of the low levels of persisting HIV DNA may aid
patient monitoring and cure research. Digital PCR is a promising tool that
enables direct absolute quantification with high sensitivity. With recent
technological advances, several platforms are available to implement digital PCR 
in a clinical setting. Here, we compared two digital PCR platforms, the
Quantstudio 3D (Life Technologies) and the QX100 (Bio-Rad) with a semi-nested
qPCR on serial HIV DNA dilutions and DNA isolated from PBMCs of ART-suppressed
patients. All three methods were able to detect target to the lowest levels of
2.5 HIV DNA copies. The QX100 excelled in having the least bias and highest
precision, efficiency and quantitative linearity. Patient sample quantifications 
by the QX100 and semi-nested qPCR were highly agreeable by Bland-Altman analysis 
(0.01±0.32 log10). Due to the observation of false-positive signals with current 
digital PCR platforms however, semi-nested qPCR may still be preferred in a setup
of low quantity detection to discriminate between presence or absence of HIV DNA.

DOI: 10.1038/srep13811 
PMCID: PMC4563360
PMID: 26350506  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Prostate Cancer Prostatic Dis. 2015 Dec;18(4):370-5. doi: 10.1038/pcan.2015.40.
Epub 2015 Sep 8.

A molecular signature of PCA3 and ERG exosomal RNA from non-DRE urine is
predictive of initial prostate biopsy result.

Donovan MJ(1,)(2), Noerholm M(2), Bentink S(2), Belzer S(2), Skog J(2), O'Neill
V(2), Cochran JS(3), Brown GA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York,
NY, USA. (2)Exosome Diagnostics, Cambridge, MA, USA. (3)Urology Clinics of North 
Texas, Dallas, TX, USA. (4)Delaware Valley Urology, LLC, Voorhees, NJ, USA.

BACKGROUND: New screening methods that can add predictive diagnostic value for
aggressive (high-grade, Gleason score ⩾ 7) prostate cancer (PCa) are needed to
reduce unnecessary biopsies for patients with non-aggressive PCa. This is
particularly important for men presenting for an initial biopsy with an equivocal
PSA in the 2-10 ng ml(-1) range. PCA3 and ERG are biomarkers that can add
predictive value for PCa in urine; however, with a limited utility as a digital
rectal exam (DRE) is required.
METHODS: First-catch urine samples were collected at six sites from men scheduled
to undergo a prostate biopsy. Exosomal RNA was extracted, RNA copy numbers of ERG
and PCA3 were measured by reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR), and
the EXO106 score (the sum of normalized PCA3 and ERG RNA levels) was computed.
Performance was compared with standard of care (SOC; PSA, age, race or family
history) parameters. Contingency table, logistic regression, receiver operating
characteristics curve and box-plot analyses were performed.
RESULTS: In this cohort (N=195), a dichotomous EXO106 score demonstrated good
clinical performance in predicting biopsy result for both any cancer and
high-grade disease. For high-grade disease, the negative and positive predictive 
values were 97.5% and 34.5%, respectively. The discrimination between high-grade 
and Gleason score ⩽ 6 (including benign) biopsy results by a combination of
EXO106 and SOC (area under the curve (AUC)=0.803) was significantly improved
compared with SOC without EXO106 (AUC=0.6723, P=0.0009). The median EXO106 score 
correlated (P<0.001; Spearman's rank order) with histologic grade.
CONCLUSIONS: A novel molecular signature (EXO106 score) derived from non-DRE
urine demonstrated independent, negative predictive value for the diagnosis of
high-grade PCa from initial biopsy for men with 'gray zone' serum PSA levels. Its
use in the biopsy decision process could result in fewer prostate biopsies for
clinically insignificant disease.

DOI: 10.1038/pcan.2015.40 
PMID: 26345389  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Oncotarget. 2015 Oct 13;6(31):30850-8. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.5068.

Digital PCR analysis of plasma cell-free DNA for non-invasive detection of drug
resistance mechanisms in EGFR mutant NSCLC: Correlation with paired tumor
samples.

Ishii H(1), Azuma K(1), Sakai K(2), Kawahara A(3), Yamada K(1), Tokito T(1),
Okamoto I(4), Nishio K(2), Hoshino T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Respirology, Neurology, and Rheumatology, Department of Internal
Medicine, Kurume University School of Medicine, Kurume, Fukuoka, Japan.
(2)Department of Genome Biology, Kinki University Faculty of Medicine, Osaka,
Japan. (3)Department of Diagnostic Pathology, Kurume University Hospital, Kurume,
Fukuoka, Japan. (4)Center for Clinical and Translational Research, Kyusyu
University Hospital, Fukuoka, Japan.

As the development of resistance to epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)
tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) has become an issue of concern, identification 
of the mechanisms responsible has become an urgent priority. However, for
research purposes, it is not easy to obtain tumor samples from patients with EGFR
mutation-positive non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) that has relapsed after
treatment with EGFR-TKIs. Here, using digital PCR assay as an alternative and
noninvasive method, we examined plasma and tumor samples from patients with
relapsed NSCLC to establish the inter-relationships existing among T790M
mutation, activating EGFR mutations, HER2 amplification, and MET amplification.
Paired samples of tumor and blood were obtained from a total of 18 patients with 
NSCLC after they had developed resistance to EGFR-TKI treatment, and the
mechanisms of resistance were analyzed by digital PCR. Digital PCR analysis of
T790M mutation in plasma had a sensitivity of 81.8% and specificity of 85.7%, the
overall concordance between plasma and tissue samples being 83.3%. MET gene copy 
number gain in tumor DNA was observed by digital PCR in three patients, of whom
one exhibited positivity for MET amplification by FISH, whereas no patient
demonstrated MET and HER2 copy number gain in plasma DNA. Digital PCR analysis of
plasma is feasible and accurate for detection of T790M mutation in NSCLC that
becomes resistant to treatment with EGFR-TKIs.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.5068 
PMCID: PMC4741572
PMID: 26334838  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Sci Rep. 2015 Sep 3;5:13795. doi: 10.1038/srep13795.

Droplet Digital Enzyme-Linked Oligonucleotide Hybridization Assay for Absolute
RNA Quantification.

Guan W(1,)(2), Chen L(2), Rane TD(1), Wang TH(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore
21218, USA. (2)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore 21218, USA.

We present a continuous-flow droplet-based digital Enzyme-Linked Oligonucleotide 
Hybridization Assay (droplet digital ELOHA) for sensitive detection and absolute 
quantification of RNA molecules. Droplet digital ELOHA incorporates direct
hybridization and single enzyme reaction via the formation of single
probe-RNA-probe (enzyme) complex on magnetic beads. It enables RNA detection
without reverse transcription and PCR amplification processes. The magnetic beads
are subsequently encapsulated into a large number of picoliter-sized droplets
with enzyme substrates in a continuous-flow device. This device is capable of
generating droplets at high-throughput. It also integrates in-line enzymatic
incubation and detection of fluorescent products. Our droplet digital ELOHA is
able to accurately quantify (differentiate 40% difference) as few as ~600 RNA
molecules in a 1 mL sample (equivalent to 1 aM or lower) without molecular
replication. The absolute quantification ability of droplet digital ELOHA is
demonstrated with the analysis of clinical Neisseria gonorrhoeae 16S rRNA to show
its potential value in real complex samples.

DOI: 10.1038/srep13795 
PMCID: PMC4558716
PMID: 26333806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2015 Dec;70(12):3311-6. doi: 10.1093/jac/dkv250. Epub
2015 Aug 31.

HIV-1 RNA and HIV-1 DNA persistence during suppressive ART with PI-based or
nevirapine-based regimens.

Kiselinova M(1), Geretti AM(2), Malatinkova E(1), Vervisch K(1), Beloukas A(2),
Messiaen P(3), Bonczkowski P(1), Trypsteen W(1), Callens S(4), Verhofstede C(5), 
De Spiegelaere W(1), Vandekerckhove L(6).

Author information: 
(1)HIV Translational Research Unit (HTRU), Department of Internal Medicine, Ghent
University and Ghent University Hospital, Ghent, Belgium. (2)Department of
Clinical Infection, Microbiology and Immunology (CIMI), Institute of Infection
and Global Health (IGH), University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK. (3)Department of
Infectious Diseases and Immunity, Jessa Hospital, Hasselt, Belgium. (4)Department
of Internal Medicine and Infectious Diseases, Ghent University Hospital, Ghent,
Belgium. (5)AIDS Reference Laboratory, Department of Clinical Chemistry,
Microbiology and Immunology, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium. (6)HIV
Translational Research Unit (HTRU), Department of Internal Medicine, Ghent
University and Ghent University Hospital, Ghent, Belgium Department of Internal
Medicine and Infectious Diseases, Ghent University Hospital, Ghent, Belgium
linos.vandekerckhove@ugent.be.

OBJECTIVES: Whether ART regimens differ in their propensity to allow persistent
HIV-1 detection remains unclear. To investigate this, we performed a
cross-sectional study to characterize HIV-1 persistence in peripheral blood
during suppressive therapy with NRTIs plus a PI or nevirapine.
METHODS: Residual plasma HIV-1 RNA was quantified by real-time PCR.
Cell-associated proviral total HIV-1 DNA, unspliced and multiply spliced HIV-1
RNA and 2-long terminal repeat (2-LTR) circles were quantified by digital PCR.
RESULTS: Comparing PI with nevirapine recipients, residual plasma HIV-1 RNA
detection rates were 47/80 (58.8%) versus 37/81 (45.7%), with median (IQR) levels
of 4 (3-8) versus 4 (3-7) copies/mL (P = 0.207); detection was less likely with
longer duration of suppressive ART (P = 0.020), independently of treatment. HIV-1
DNA was detected in all patients, with median levels of 2.3 (IQR 2.0-2.7) versus 
2.5 (IQR 2.1-2.7) log10 copies/10(6) PBMCs, respectively; HIV-1 DNA levels were
associated with pre-ART viral load (P = 0.004) and with residual HIV-1 RNA
(P = 0.034), unspliced HIV-1 RNA (P = 0.001) and 2-LTR circles (P = 0.005),
independently of treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: No significant differences were revealed in levels of residual
plasma HIV-1 RNA, total HIV-1 DNA or intracellular markers of ongoing virus
replication (unspliced and multiply spliced HIV-1 RNA and 2-LTR circles) between 
treatment groups.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British 
Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy. All rights reserved. For Permissions,
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkv250 
PMID: 26324076  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. J Mol Diagn. 2015 Nov;17(6):652-60. doi: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2015.05.007. Epub 2015 
Aug 28.

Minimal Residual Disease Detection by Droplet Digital PCR in Multiple Myeloma,
Mantle Cell Lymphoma, and Follicular Lymphoma: A Comparison with Real-Time PCR.

Drandi D(1), Kubiczkova-Besse L(2), Ferrero S(3), Dani N(4), Passera R(5),
Mantoan B(3), Gambella M(3), Monitillo L(3), Saraci E(3), Ghione P(3), Genuardi
E(3), Barbero D(3), Omedè P(6), Barberio D(4), Hajek R(7), Vitolo U(8), Palumbo
A(3), Cortelazzo S(9), Boccadoro M(3), Inghirami G(10), Ladetto M(11).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology, Department of Molecular Biotechnologies and Health
Sciences, University of Torino, Torino, Italy. Electronic address:
daniela.drandi@unito.it. (2)Babak Myeloma Group, Department of Pathological
Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic.
(3)Division of Hematology, Department of Molecular Biotechnologies and Health
Sciences, University of Torino, Torino, Italy. (4)Bioclarma srl, Torino, Italy.
(5)Division of Nuclear Medicine, A.O.U. Città della Salute e della Scienza,
Torino, Italy. (6)Division of Hematology, A.O.U. Città della Salute e della
Scienza, Torino, Italy. (7)Babak Myeloma Group, Department of Pathological
Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic;
Department of Hematooncology, Faculty of Medicine University of Ostrava and
University Hospital Ostrava, Ostrava, Czech Republic. (8)Division of Oncology
Department, A.O.U. Città della Salute e della Scienza, Torino, Italy.
(9)Hematology Department, S. Maurizio Regional Hospital, Bolzano, Italy.
(10)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, New York Presbyterian
Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, New York, New York; Division of Pathology,
Department of Molecular Biotechnologies and Health Sciences, University of
Torino, Torino, Italy. (11)Division of Hematology, Department of Molecular
Biotechnologies and Health Sciences, University of Torino, Torino, Italy;
Hematology Division, A.O.S. Antonio, Biagio and Cesare Arrigo, Alessandria,
Italy.

Real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR) is a well-established tool for minimal residual
disease (MRD) detection in mature lymphoid malignancies. Despite remarkable
sensitivity and specificity, qPCR has some limitations, particularly in the need 
for a reference standard curve, based on target serial dilutions. In this study, 
we established droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) for MRD monitoring in multiple
myeloma, mantle cell lymphoma, and follicular lymphoma and compared it
head-to-head with qPCR. We observed that ddPCR has sensitivity, accuracy, and
reproducibility comparable with qPCR. We then compared the two approaches in 69
patients with a documented molecular marker at diagnosis (18 multiple myelomas,
21 mantle cell lymphomas assessed with the immunoglobulin gene rearrangement, and
30 follicular lymphomas with the use of the BCL2/immunoglobulin gene major
breakpoint region rearrangement). ddPCR was successful in 100% of cases, whereas 
qPCR failed to provide a reliable standard curve in three patients. Overall, 222 
of 225 samples were evaluable by both methods. The comparison highlighted a good 
concordance (r = 0.94, P < 0.0001) with 189 of 222 samples (85.1%; 95% CI,
80.4%-89.8%) being fully concordant. We found that ddPCR is a reliable tool for
MRD detection with greater applicability and reduced labor intensiveness than
qPCR. It will be necessary to authorize ddPCR as an outcome predictor tool in
controlled clinical settings and multilaboratory standardization programs.

Copyright © 2015 American Society for Investigative Pathology and the Association
for Molecular Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2015.05.007 
PMID: 26319783  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. J Virol Methods. 2015 Nov;224:58-66. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2015.08.014. Epub
2015 Aug 24.

Optimization of Droplet Digital PCR from RNA and DNA extracts with direct
comparison to RT-qPCR: Clinical implications for quantification of
Oseltamivir-resistant subpopulations.

Taylor SC(1), Carbonneau J(2), Shelton DN(3), Boivin G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Bio-Rad Laboratories Canada, Inc., 1329 Meyerside Drive, Mississauga, ON,
Canada L5T1C9. Electronic address: sean_taylor@bio-rad.com. (2)CHU of Quebec and 
Laval University, Quebec City, QC, Canada. (3)Digital Biology Center, Bio-Rad
Laboratories, Pleasanton, CA, USA.

The recent introduction of Droplet Digital PCR (ddPCR) has provided researchers
with a tool that permits direct quantification of nucleic acids from a wide range
of samples with increased precision and sensitivity versus RT-qPCR. The sample
interdependence of RT-qPCR stemming from the measurement of Cq and ΔCq values is 
eliminated with ddPCR which provides an independent measure of the absolute
nucleic acid concentration for each sample without standard curves thereby
reducing inter-well and inter-plate variability. Well-characterized RNA purified 
from H275-wild type (WT) and H275Y-point mutated (MUT) neuraminidase of influenza
A (H1N1) pandemic 2009 virus was used to demonstrate a ddPCR optimization
workflow to assure robust data for downstream analysis. The ddPCR reaction mix
was also tested with RT-qPCR and gave excellent reaction efficiency (between 90% 
and 100%) with the optimized MUT/WT duplexed assay thus enabling the direct
comparison of the two platforms from the same reaction mix and thermal cycling
protocol. ddPCR gave a marked improvement in sensitivity (>30-fold) for mutation 
abundance using a mixture of purified MUT and WT RNA and increased precision (>10
fold, p<0.05 for both inter- and intra-assay variability) versus RT-qPCR from
patient samples to accurately identify residual mutant viral population during
recovery.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2015.08.014 
PMID: 26315318  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. J Microbiol Methods. 2015 Nov;118:37-41. doi: 10.1016/j.mimet.2015.08.012. Epub
2015 Aug 22.

Quantification of Listeria monocytogenes cells with digital PCR and their biofilm
cells with real-time PCR.

Klančnik A(1), Toplak N(2), Kovač M(2), Marquis H(3), Jeršek B(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Technology, Biotechnical Faculty, University of
Ljubljana, Jamnikarjeva 101, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia. (2)Omega d.o.o.,
Dolinškova 8, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia. (3)Department of Microbiology and
Immunology, Veterinary Medical Center, Room C4-183, Cornell University, Ithaca,
NY 14853, United States. (4)Department of Food Science and Technology,
Biotechnical Faculty, University of Ljubljana, Jamnikarjeva 101, 1000 Ljubljana, 
Slovenia. Electronic address: barbka.jersek@bf.uni-lj.si.

The purpose of this study was to develop a PCR-based method for quantification of
Listeria monocytogenes adhesion in microtitre plates. We optimized isolation of
DNA in the microtitre plates using cell lysis, ultrasound treatment, heating, and
centrifugation of the lysate. Digital PCR was applied for quantification of L.
monocytogenes DNA that was used for construction of the standard curve, and
real-time PCR was used for quantification of the attached L. monocytogenes cells.
This PCR-based method was applied to quantify different strains of L.
monocytogenes at different times of biofilm formation, and to study the
anti-adhesive actions of natural bioactive substances (epigallocatechin gallate, 
(-)-α-pinene). The results show that the PCR-based method developed here can be
widely used as a novel approach for adhesion assays and biofilm research.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mimet.2015.08.012 
PMID: 26304835  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Cancer Prev Res (Phila). 2015 Nov;8(11):1017-26. doi:
10.1158/1940-6207.CAPR-15-0180. Epub 2015 Aug 24.

Paired box 5 methylation detection by droplet digital PCR for ultra-sensitive
deep surgical margins analysis of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.

Hayashi M(1), Guerrero-Preston R(1), Sidransky D(1), Koch WM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland. (2)Departments of Otolaryngology-Head
and Neck Surgery, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore,
Maryland. wkoch@jhmi.edu.

Molecular deep surgical margin analysis has been shown to predict locoregional
recurrences of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). To improve the
accuracy and versatility of the analysis, we used a highly tumor-specific
methylation marker and highly sensitive detection technology to test DNA from
surgical margins. Histologically cancer-negative deep surgical margin samples
were prospectively collected from 82 eligible HNSCC surgeries by an imprinting
procedure (n = 75) and primary tissue collection (n = 70). Bisulfite-treated DNA 
from each sample was analyzed by both conventional quantitative
methylation-specific PCR (QMSP) and QMSP by droplet digital PCR (ddQMSP)
targeting Paired box 5 (PAX5) gene promoter methylation. The association between 
the presence of PAX5 methylation and locoregional recurrence-free survival (LRFS)
was evaluated. PAX5 methylation was found in 68.0% (51 of 75) of tumors in the
imprint samples and 71.4% (50 of 70) in the primary tissue samples. Among cases
that did not have postoperative radiation (n = 31 in imprint samples, n = 29 in
tissue samples), both conventional QMSP and ddQMSP revealed that PAX5
methylation-positive margins was significantly associated with poor LRFS by
univariate analysis. In particular, ddQMSP increased detection of the PAX5 marker
from 29% to 71% in the nonradiated imprint cases. Also, PAX5 methylated imprint
margins were an excellent predictor of poor LRFS [HR, 3.89; 95% confidence
interval (CI), 1.19-17.52; P = 0.023] by multivariate analysis. PAX5 methylation 
appears to be an excellent tumor-specific marker for molecular deep surgical
margin analysis of HNSCC. Moreover, the ddQMSP assay displays increased
sensitivity for methylation marker detection.

©2015 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1940-6207.CAPR-15-0180 
PMCID: PMC4633357
PMID: 26304463  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Sci Rep. 2015 Aug 25;5:13174. doi: 10.1038/srep13174.

Comparison of four digital PCR platforms for accurate quantification of DNA copy 
number of a certified plasmid DNA reference material.

Dong L(1), Meng Y(2), Sui Z(1), Wang J(1), Wu L(1), Fu B(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Metrology, Beijing, 100029, P. R. China. (2)Hubei
Institute of Measurement and Testing Technology, 430223, Wuhan, P. R. China.

Digital polymerase chain reaction (dPCR) is a unique approach to measurement of
the absolute copy number of target DNA without using external standards. However,
the comparability of different dPCR platforms with respect to measurement of DNA 
copy number must be addressed before dPCR can be classified fundamentally as an
absolute quantification technique. The comparability of four dPCR platforms with 
respect to accuracy and measurement uncertainty was investigated by using a
certified plasmid reference material. Plasmid conformation was found to have a
significant effect on droplet-based dPCR (QX100 and RainDrop) not shared with
chip-based QuantStudio 12k or BioMark. The relative uncertainty of partition
volume was determined to be 0.7%, 0.8%, 2.3% and 2.9% for BioMark, QX100,
QuantStudio 12k and RainDrop, respectively. The measurements of the certified
pNIM-001 plasmid made using the four dPCR platforms were corrected for partition 
volume and closely consistent with the certified value within the expended
uncertainty. This demonstrated that the four dPCR platforms are of comparable
effectiveness in quantifying DNA copy number. These findings provide an
independent assessment of this method of determining DNA copy number when using
different dPCR platforms and underline important factors that should be taken
into consideration in the design of dPCR experiments.

DOI: 10.1038/srep13174 
PMCID: PMC4548226
PMID: 26302947  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Gene. 2016 Jan 1;575(1):42-7. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2015.08.032. Epub 2015 Aug 20.

Concomitant partial exon skipping by a unique missense mutation of RPS6KA3 causes
Coffin-Lowry syndrome.

Labonne JD(1), Chung MJ(2), Jones JR(3), Anand P(4), Wenzel W(4), Iacoboni D(5), 
Layman LC(6), Kim HG(7).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Reproductive Endocrinology, Infertility & Genetics, Department of
Obstetrics & Gynecology, Georgia Regents University, Augusta, GA 30912, USA;
Department of Neuroscience and Regenerative Medicine, Georgia Regents University,
Augusta, GA 30912, USA. (2)Section of Reproductive Endocrinology, Infertility &
Genetics, Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Georgia Regents University,
Augusta, GA 30912, USA; St Mark's School, 25 Marlboro Road, Southborough, MA
01772, USA. (3)Greenwood Genetic Center, Greenwood, SC 29646, USA. (4)Karlsruhe
Institute of Technology (KIT)/University of Karlsruhe (TH), Germany. (5)Divison
of Human Genetics, Department of Pediatrics and Human Development, Michigan State
University, East Lansing, MI 48824, USA. (6)Section of Reproductive
Endocrinology, Infertility & Genetics, Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology,
Georgia Regents University, Augusta, GA 30912, USA; Department of Neuroscience
and Regenerative Medicine, Georgia Regents University, Augusta, GA 30912, USA;
Neuroscience Program, Medical College of Georgia, Georgia Regents University,
Augusta, GA 30912, USA. (7)Section of Reproductive Endocrinology, Infertility &
Genetics, Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Georgia Regents University,
Augusta, GA 30912, USA; Department of Neuroscience and Regenerative Medicine,
Georgia Regents University, Augusta, GA 30912, USA. Electronic address:
hkim@gru.edu.

Coffin-Lowry syndrome (CLS) is an X-linked semi-dominant disorder characterized
by diverse phenotypes including intellectual disability, facial and digital
anomalies. Loss-of-function mutations in the Ribosomal Protein S6 Kinase
Polypeptide 3 (RPS6KA3) gene have been shown to be responsible for CLS. Among the
large number of mutations, however, no exonic mutation causing exon skipping has 
been described. Here, we report a male patient with CLS having a novel mutation
at the 3' end of an exon at a splice donor junction. Interestingly, this
nucleotide change causes both a novel missense mutation and partial exon skipping
leading to a truncated transcript. These two transcripts were identified by cDNA 
sequencing of RT-PCR products. In the carrier mother, we found only wildtype
transcripts suggesting skewed X-inactivation. Methylation studies confirmed
X-inactivation was skewed moderately, but not completely, which is consistent
with her mild phenotype. Western blot showed that the mutant RSK2 protein in the 
patient is expressed at similar levels relative to his mother. Protein modeling
demonstrated that the missense mutation is damaging and may alter binding to ATP 
molecules. This is the first report of exon skipping from an exonic mutation of
RPS6KA3, demonstrating that a missense mutation and concomitant disruption of
normal splicing contribute to the manifestation of CLS.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2015.08.032 
PMID: 26297997  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. J Invertebr Pathol. 2015 Nov;132:66-76. doi: 10.1016/j.jip.2015.08.008. Epub 2015
Aug 19.

Digital gene expression analysis of Helicoverpa armigera in the early stage of
infection with Helicoverpa armigera nucleopolyhedrovirus.

Li Z(1), Lu Z(1), Wang X(1), Zhang S(1), Zhang Q(1), Liu X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Entomology, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100193,
China. (2)Department of Entomology, China Agricultural University, Beijing
100193, China. Electronic address: liuxiaoxia611@cau.edu.cn.

Helicoverpa armigera single nucleocapsid nucleopolyhedrovirus (HearNPV) is an
obligatory and lethal parasite of the cotton bollworm and has been extensively
used in China for the control of this notorious pest. Digital gene expression
(DGE) analysis was adopted for an overall comparison of transcriptome profiling
between HearNPV-infected and control healthy Helicoverpa armigera larvae during
an early stage post-inoculation. A total of 908 differentially expressed genes
(DEGs) were identified, of which 136 were up-regulated and 597 were
down-regulated. GO category and KEGG pathway analysis demonstrated that the
identified DEGs involved in ribosome biogenesis, aminoacyl-tRNA biosynthesis,
protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum, biosynthesis of valine, leucine,
isoleucine and the spliceosome were significantly down-regulated, whereas genes
involved in pancreatic secretion, protein digestion and absorption and salivary
secretion showed obviously up-regulated transcription. The DEGs were verified by 
quantitative real-time PCR, and genes that participated in defensive response,
nutritional digestion and developmental regulation exhibited specific expression 
patterns in a continuous time-course assessment. These results provide basic data
for future research on the molecular mechanism of HearNPV infection and the
interactions between lepidopteran hosts and their specific NPV parasites.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jip.2015.08.008 
PMID: 26296928  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. World J Gastroenterol. 2015 Aug 14;21(30):9093-102. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v21.i30.9093.

Mechanisms of pyruvate kinase M2 isoform inhibits cell motility in hepatocellular
carcinoma cells.

Chen YL(1), Song JJ(1), Chen XC(1), Xu W(1), Zhi Q(1), Liu YP(1), Xu HZ(1), Pan
JS(1), Ren JL(1), Guleng B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Yan-Ling Chen, Jun-Jiao Song, Xiao-Chun Chen, Wei Xu, Qiang Zhi, Yun-Peng Liu,
Hong-Zhi Xu, Jin-Shui Pan, Jian-Lin Ren, Bayasi Guleng, Department of
Gastroenterology, Zhongshan Hospital affiliated to Xiamen University, Xiamen
361004, Fujian Province, China.

AIM: To investigate biological mechanisms underlying pyruvate kinase M2 isoform
(PKM2) regulation of cell migration and invasion in hepatocellular carcinoma
cells.
METHODS: HepG2 and Huh-7 hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines were stably
transfected and cultured in DMEM (HyClone, Logan, UT, United States). To
investigate the effects of PKM2 on cellular proliferation, hepatocellular
carcinoma cells were subjected to the Cell Counting Kit-8 (Dojindo,
Kamimashiki-gun, Kumamoto, Japan). And investigate the effects of PKM2 on cell
signal pathway related with migration and invasion, Western immunoblotting were
used to find out the differential proteins. All the antibody used was purchaseed 
from Cell Signal Technology. In order to explore cell motility used Transwell
invasion and wound healing assays. The transwell plate with 0.5 mg/mL collagen
type I (BD Bioscience, San Jose, CA)-coated filters. The wound-healing assay was 
performed in 6-well plates. Total RNA was extracted using TRIzol reagent
(Invitrogen, CA, United States) and then reverse transcription was conducted.
Quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis was
performed with the ABI 7500 real-time PCR system (Applied Biosystems). We further
use digital gene expression tag profiling and identification of differentially
expressed genes.
RESULTS: The cells seeded in four 96-well plates were measured OD450 by conducted
Cell Counting Kit-8. From this conduction we observed that both HepG2 and Huh-7
hepatocellular carcinoma cells with silenced PKM2 turn on a proliferate
inhibition; however, cell migration and invasion were enhanced compared with the 
control upon stimulation with epidermal growth factor (EGF). Our results indicate
that the knockdown of PKM2 decreased the expression of E-cadherin and enhanced
the activity of the EGF/EGFR signaling pathway, furthermore up-regulate the
subsequent signal molecular the PLCγ1 and extracellular signal-regulated kinase
1/2 expression in the hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines HepG2 and Huh-7, which 
regulates cell motility. These variations we observed were due to the activation 
of the transforming growth factor beta (TGFβ) signaling pathway after PKM2
knockdown. We also found that the expression of TGFBRI was increased and the
phosphorylation of Smad2 was enhanced. Taken together, our findings demonstrate
that PKM2 can regulate cell motility through the EGF/EGFR and TGFβ/TGFR signaling
pathways in hepatocellular carcinoma cells.
CONCLUSION: PKM2 play different roles in modulating the proliferation and
metastasis of hepatocellular carcinoma cells, and this finding could help to
guide the future targeted therapies.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v21.i30.9093 
PMCID: PMC4533040
PMID: 26290635  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


661. Biomark Med. 2015;9(8):791-805. doi: 10.2217/BMM.15.45.

Extracellular vesicle microRNAs: biomarker discovery in various diseases based on
RT-qPCR.

Liu Y(1), Lu Q(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hunan Key Laboratory of Medical Epigenomics, Department of Dermatology, Second
Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, #139 Renmin Middle Rd, Changsha,
Hunan 410011, PR China.

In recent years, biomarker discovery based on extracellular microRNAs (miRNAs),
especially exosome miRNAs, has drawn wide attention. While exosome isolation and 
identification technologies are increasingly sophisticated, the preanalytical
process of exosome miRNAs seems to be no longer a crucial problem. Though
next-generation sequencing, microarray and digital PCR have been recommended as
good downstream analytical platforms for exosome miRNA quantification, they are
still more constrained in clinical utility compared with RT-qPCR method at
present. In this review, we will trace back to the origin and summarize current
studies of biomarker discovery based on extracellular vesicle miRNAs, and provide
an overview and latest developments of RT-qPCR-based data normalization, in order
to further assist the development of translational medicine.

DOI: 10.2217/BMM.15.45 
PMID: 26287938  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Poult Sci. 2015 Oct;94(10):2369-74. doi: 10.3382/ps/pev233. Epub 2015 Aug 17.

Pathogenicity of newly emergent turkey arthritis reoviruses in chickens.

Sharafeldin TA(1), Mor SK(2), Verma H(2), Bekele AZ(2), Ismagilova L(2), Goyal
SM(2), Porter RE(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Population Medicine and Minnesota Veterinary
Diagnostic Laboratory, University of Minnesota, 1333 Gortner Avenue, St. Paul, MN
55108 Department of Pathology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Zagazig
University, Zagazig, Egypt 44519 shara022@umn.edu. (2)Department of Veterinary
Population Medicine and Minnesota Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory, University of
Minnesota, 1333 Gortner Avenue, St. Paul, MN 55108.

Turkey arthritis reoviruses (TARVs) were isolated recently from gastrocnemius and
digital flexor tendons of lame turkeys with swollen joints and tenosynovitis.
These TARVs were genetically different from chicken arthritis reoviruses (CARVs) 
and produced gastrocnemius tenosynovitis when inoculated into turkey poults. The 
purpose of this study was to determine the pathogenicity of TARVs in chickens.
One-week-old, specific-pathogen-free chicks were inoculated with either a TARV
(TARV-MN2 or TARV-O'Neil) or CARV via oral, intratracheal, or footpad routes. At 
2 and 3 weeks post inoculation (PI), a subset of chicks from each group was
euthanized followed by collection of tissues for real-time RT-PCR (rRT-PCR),
virus isolation, and histopathology. Chickens inoculated with CARV via
intratracheal and footpad routes developed gastrocnemius lymphocytic
tenosynovitis at 2 and 3 weeks PI. Both TARV-MN2 and TARV-O'Neil induced
gastrocnemius lymphocytic tenosynovitis in chicks inoculated only via the footpad
route at 2 and 3 weeks PI. Although there was no evidence of clinical lameness,
the virus was present in leg tendons, internal organs, and intestines of all
TARV-inoculated chicks regardless of route of inoculation, as indicated by
rRT-PCR and virus isolation. These results indicate that TARVs do not produce
gastrocnemius tenosynovitis in chicks by 3 weeks PI when administered via the
most probable natural route (e.g., oral and intratracheal). Further studies are
needed to determine the long term effects these viruses might play in inducing
lameness in chickens.

© 2015 Poultry Science Association Inc.

DOI: 10.3382/ps/pev233 
PMID: 26287002  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Cancer Lett. 2015 Dec 1;369(1):28-36. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2015.08.003. Epub
2015 Aug 11.

Integrated proteo-genomic approach for early diagnosis and prognosis of cancer.

Shukla HD(1), Mahmood J(2), Vujaskovic Z(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy, University of
Maryland, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA. Electronic address: hshukla@ndm.edu.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, School of Medicine, University of Maryland, 
Baltimore, MD 21201, USA. Electronic address: jmahmood@som.umaryland.edu.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, School of Medicine, University of Maryland, 
Baltimore, MD 21201, USA. Electronic address: zvujaskovic@som.umaryland.edu.

Cancer is the leading cause of mortality among men and women worldwide. Despite
the availability of numerous diagnostic techniques for various cancers, the
overall survival rate remains low and the majority of patients die due to late
diagnosis and advanced stage of the disease. Diagnosing and treating cancer at
its early stages ideally during the precancerous phase could significantly
increase survival rate with the possibility of cure and prolong survival. Cancer 
is a genetic disease and it is illicitly activated by the acquisition of somatic 
DNA lesions and aberrations in genome structure and defects in maintenance and
repair. These somatic DNA mutations known as driver mutations seem to be the
prime cause in initiating tumorigenesis. The advances in genomic technologies
have immensely facilitated the understanding of cancer progression and
metastasis, and the discovery of novel biomarkers. However, changes in somatic
mutational landscape of the oncogenome are translated into aberrantly regulated
oncoproteome which drives the cancer initiation. Thus, combination of proteomic
and genomic technologies is urgently required to discover biomarkers for early
diagnosis. The recent advances in human genome based detection of cancer using
advanced genomic technologies like NextGen Sequencing, digital PCR, cfDNA
technology have shown promise; for example oncogenic somatic mutation variants,
transcriptomic analysis, copy number variant, and methylation data from the
Cancer Genome Atlas. Similarly, oncoproteomics has the potential to revolutionize
clinical management of the disease, including cancer diagnosis and screening
based on new proteomic database which embodies somatic variants and post
translational modifications, thus devising proteomic technologies as a complement
to histopathology. Further, the use of multiple proteomic and genomic biomarkers 
rather than a single gene or protein could greatly improve diagnostic accuracy
and enhance the predictive power for treatment outcome and may enable adequate
monitoring of the response to treatment and could be an important option for
personalized medicine. The proteogenomic approach has the promise to identify new
biomarkers for radiation therapy (RT) which could reliably predict the tumor
radiation resistance and which could also accurately predict normal tissue
toxicity, and at the same time radiotherapy effectiveness. In this review we have
summarize the recent advances in proteogenomic approaches to develop more
sensitive diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers which could be translated into
improved clinical care and management of the disease.

Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2015.08.003 
PMID: 26276717  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2015 Nov;81(21):7460-9. doi: 10.1128/AEM.01956-15. Epub
2015 Aug 14.

The gastrointestinal tract as a potential infection reservoir of digital
dermatitis-associated treponemes in beef cattle and sheep.

Sullivan LE(1), Carter SD(2), Duncan JS(3), Grove-White DH(3), Angell JW(3),
Evans NJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infection Biology, School of Veterinary Science, Institute of
infection and Global Health, Liverpool, Merseyside, United Kingdom
l.sullivan@liverpool.ac.uk. (2)Department of Infection Biology, School of
Veterinary Science, Institute of infection and Global Health, Liverpool,
Merseyside, United Kingdom. (3)Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, 
Institute of Infection and Global Health, University of Liverpool, Leahurst
Campus, Neston, Wirral, Cheshire, United Kingdom.

Digital dermatitis (DD) is an important cause of lameness in dairy cattle
worldwide. It has now been reported in beef cattle and also sheep (contagious
ovine digital dermatitis [CODD]). Three Treponema phylogroups are consistently
isolated from lesions, Treponema medium-like, Treponema phagedenis-like, and
Treponema pedis. The gastrointestinal (GI) tract and feces are suggested sites of
treponemal infection in dairy cattle; however, isolation of DD-associated
treponemes from these areas has previously failed. This study surveyed gingival
tissues, rectal tissues, and feces of beef cattle and sheep for the molecular
presence (PCR) and isolation of the three cultivable DD-treponeme phylogroups. Of
the sheep gingival (n = 40) and rectal (n = 40) tissues, 1/40 gingival tissues
was positive for DD-associated treponemes (T. pedis), as were 3/40 rectal tissues
(one containing T. medium-like and two containing T. pedis). No DD-associated
treponeme DNA was amplified from beef cattle rectal tissues (n = 40); however,
4/40 beef gingival tissues were positive for DD-associated treponemes (all
containing T. phagedenis-like). A T. phagedenis-like DD-associated treponeme was 
isolated from the rectal tissue of a CODD symptomatic sheep. Beef cattle (n = 41)
and sheep (n = 79) feces failed to amplify DD-associated Treponema DNA.
Twenty-two treponemes were isolated from sheep feces; however, upon phylogenetic 
analysis, these clustered with the considered nonpathogenic treponemes. This
study detected DD-associated treponemes in the GI tract tissues of sheep and beef
cattle and successfully isolated a DD-associated treponeme from ruminant rectal
tissue. This gives evidence that the GI tract is an important infection reservoir
of DD-associated treponemes in multiple DD-infected species.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.01956-15 
PMCID: PMC4592882
PMID: 26276110  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Int J Mol Sci. 2015 Aug 12;16(8):18878-93. doi: 10.3390/ijms160818878.

Detecting Antigen-Specific T Cell Responses: From Bulk Populations to Single
Cells.

Phetsouphanh C(1), Zaunders JJ(2,)(3), Kelleher AD(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Kirby Institute, University of New South Wales, 2031 Sydney, Australia.
c.phetsouphanh@gmail.com. (2)Kirby Institute, University of New South Wales, 2031
Sydney, Australia. jzaunders@kirby.unsw.edu.au. (3)Centre for Applied Medical
Research, St. Vincent's Hospital, 2010 Sydney, Australia.
jzaunders@kirby.unsw.edu.au. (4)Kirby Institute, University of New South Wales,
2031 Sydney, Australia. akelleher@kirby.unsw.edu.au. (5)Centre for Applied
Medical Research, St. Vincent's Hospital, 2010 Sydney, Australia.
akelleher@kirby.unsw.edu.au.

A new generation of sensitive T cell-based assays facilitates the direct
quantitation and characterization of antigen-specific T cell responses.
Single-cell analyses have focused on measuring the quality and breadth of a
response. Accumulating data from these studies demonstrate that there is
considerable, previously-unrecognized, heterogeneity. Standard assays, such as
the ICS, are often insufficient for characterization of rare subsets of cells.
Enhanced flow cytometry with imaging capabilities enables the determination of
cell morphology, as well as the spatial localization of the protein molecules
within a single cell. Advances in both microfluidics and digital PCR have
improved the efficiency of single-cell sorting and allowed multiplexed gene
detection at the single-cell level. Delving further into the transcriptome of
single-cells using RNA-seq is likely to reveal the fine-specificity of cellular
events such as alternative splicing (i.e., splice variants) and allele-specific
expression, and will also define the roles of new genes. Finally, detailed
analysis of clonally related antigen-specific T cells using single-cell TCR
RNA-seq will provide information on pathways of differentiation of memory T
cells. With these state of the art technologies the transcriptomics and genomics 
of Ag-specific T cells can be more definitively elucidated.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms160818878 
PMCID: PMC4581277
PMID: 26274954  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. J Virol. 2015 Nov;89(21):10748-61. doi: 10.1128/JVI.01466-15. Epub 2015 Aug 12.

Encapsidation of Host RNAs by Cucumber Necrosis Virus Coat Protein during both
Agroinfiltration and Infection.

Ghoshal K(1), Theilmann J(2), Reade R(2), Maghodia A(2), Rochon D(3).

Author information: 
(1)University of British Columbia, Faculty of Land and Food Systems, Vancouver,
British Columbia, Canada. (2)Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, Pacific Agri-Food 
Research Centre, Summerland, British Columbia, Canada. (3)University of British
Columbia, Faculty of Land and Food Systems, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada
Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, Pacific Agri-Food Research Centre, Summerland, 
British Columbia, Canada dann.rochon@agr.gc.ca.

Next-generation sequence analysis of virus-like particles (VLPs) produced during 
agroinfiltration of cucumber necrosis virus (CNV) coat protein (CP) and of
authentic CNV virions was conducted to assess if host RNAs can be encapsidated by
CNV CP. VLPs containing host RNAs were found to be produced during
agroinfiltration, accumulating to approximately 1/60 the level that CNV virions
accumulated during infection. VLPs contained a variety of host RNA species,
including the major rRNAs as well as cytoplasmic, chloroplast, and mitochondrial 
mRNAs. The most predominant host RNA species encapsidated in VLPs were
chloroplast encoded, consistent with the efficient targeting of CNV CP to
chloroplasts during agroinfiltration. Interestingly, droplet digital PCR analysis
showed that the CNV CP mRNA expressed during agroinfiltration was the most
efficiently encapsidated mRNA, suggesting that the CNV CP open reading frame may 
contain a high-affinity site or sites for CP binding and thus contribute to the
specificity of CNV RNA encapsidation. Approximately 0.09% to 0.7% of the RNA
derived from authentic CNV virions contained host RNA, with chloroplast RNA again
being the most prominent species. This is consistent with our previous finding
that a small proportion of CNV CP enters chloroplasts during the infection
process and highlights the possibility that chloroplast targeting is a
significant aspect of CNV infection. Remarkably, 6 to 8 of the top 10 most
efficiently encapsidated nucleus-encoded RNAs in CNV virions correspond to
retrotransposon or retrotransposon-like RNA sequences. Thus, CNV could
potentially serve as a vehicle for horizontal transmission of retrotransposons to
new hosts and thereby significantly influence genome evolution.IMPORTANCE:
Viruses predominantly encapsidate their own virus-related RNA species due to the 
possession of specific sequences and/or structures on viral RNA which serve as
high-affinity binding sites for the coat protein. In this study, we show, using
next-generation sequence analysis, that CNV also encapsidates host RNA species,
which account for ∼0.1% of the RNA packaged in CNV particles. The encapsidated
host RNAs predominantly include chloroplast RNAs, reinforcing previous
observations that CNV CP enters chloroplasts during infection. Remarkably, the
most abundantly encapsidated cytoplasmic mRNAs consisted of retrotransposon-like 
RNA sequences, similar to findings recently reported for flock house virus (A.
Routh, T. Domitrovic, and J. E. Johnson, Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 109:1907-1912, 
2012). Encapsidation of retrotransposon sequences may contribute to their
horizontal transmission should CNV virions carrying retrotransposons infect a new
host. Such an event could lead to large-scale genomic changes in a naive plant
host, thus facilitating host evolutionary novelty.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.01466-15 
PMCID: PMC4621115
PMID: 26269190  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. PLoS One. 2015 Aug 12;10(8):e0135038. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0135038.
eCollection 2015.

Transcriptomic Analysis of Paeonia delavayi Wild Population Flowers to Identify
Differentially Expressed Genes Involved in Purple-Red and Yellow Petal
Pigmentation.

Shi Q(1), Zhou L(1), Wang Y(1), Li K(1), Zheng B(1), Miao K(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Tree Genetics and Breeding, Key Laboratory of Tree
Breeding and Cultivation of State Forestry Administration, Research Institute of 
Forestry, Chinese Academy of Forestry, Beijing 100091, China.

Tree peony (Paeonia suffruticosa Andrews) is a very famous traditional ornamental
plant in China. P. delavayi is a species endemic to Southwest China that has
aroused great interest from researchers as a precious genetic resource for flower
color breeding. However, the current understanding of the molecular mechanisms of
flower pigmentation in this plant is limited, hindering the genetic engineering
of novel flower color in tree peonies. In this study, we conducted a large-scale 
transcriptome analysis based on Illumina HiSeq sequencing of cDNA libraries
generated from yellow and purple-red P. delavayi petals. A total of 90,202
unigenes were obtained by de novo assembly, with an average length of 721 nt.
Using Blastx, 44,811 unigenes (49.68%) were found to have significant similarity 
to accessions in the NR, NT, and Swiss-Prot databases. We also examined COG, GO
and KEGG annotations to better understand the functions of these unigenes.
Further analysis of the two digital transcriptomes revealed that 6,855 unigenes
were differentially expressed between yellow and purple-red flower petals, with
3,430 up-regulated and 3,425 down-regulated. According to the RNA-Seq data and
qRT-PCR analysis, we proposed that four up-regulated key structural genes,
including F3H, DFR, ANS and 3GT, might play an important role in purple-red petal
pigmentation, while high co-expression of THC2'GT, CHI and FNS II ensures the
accumulation of pigments contributing to the yellow color. We also found 50
differentially expressed transcription factors that might be involved in
flavonoid biosynthesis. This study is the first to report genetic information for
P. delavayi. The large number of gene sequences produced by transcriptome
sequencing and the candidate genes identified using pathway mapping and
expression profiles will provide a valuable resource for future association
studies aimed at better understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying flower 
pigmentation in tree peonies.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0135038 
PMCID: PMC4534100
PMID: 26267644  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Clin Cancer Res. 2016 Feb 15;22(4):993-9. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-0943.
Epub 2015 Aug 10.

ESR1 Mutations in Circulating Plasma Tumor DNA from Metastatic Breast Cancer
Patients.

Chu D(1), Paoletti C(2), Gersch C(2), VanDenBerg DA(1), Zabransky DJ(1), Cochran 
RL(1), Wong HY(1), Toro PV(1), Cidado J(1), Croessmann S(1), Erlanger B(1),
Cravero K(1), Kyker-Snowman K(1), Button B(1), Parsons HA(1), Dalton WB(1),
Gillani R(1), Medford A(1), Aung K(2), Tokudome N(2), Chinnaiyan AM(2), Schott
A(2), Robinson D(2), Jacks KS(3), Lauring J(1), Hurley PJ(1), Hayes DF(2), Rae
JM(4), Park BH(5).

Author information: 
(1)The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, The Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland. (2)The University of Michigan
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Ann Arbor, Michigan. (3)Comprehensive Cancer Centers
of Nevada, Las Vegas, Nevada. (4)The University of Michigan Comprehensive Cancer 
Center, Ann Arbor, Michigan. bpark2@jhmi.edu jimmyrae@umich.edu. (5)The Sidney
Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, The Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland. The Whiting School of Engineering, Department of
Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
Maryland. bpark2@jhmi.edu jimmyrae@umich.edu.

PURPOSE: Mutations in the estrogen receptor (ER)α gene, ESR1, have been
identified in breast cancer metastases after progression on endocrine therapies. 
Because of limitations of metastatic biopsies, the reported frequency of ESR1
mutations may be underestimated. Here, we show a high frequency of ESR1 mutations
using circulating plasma tumor DNA (ptDNA) from patients with metastatic breast
cancer.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We retrospectively obtained plasma samples from eight
patients with known ESR1 mutations and three patients with wild-type ESR1
identified by next-generation sequencing (NGS) of biopsied metastatic tissues.
Three common ESR1 mutations were queried for using droplet digital PCR (ddPCR).
In a prospective cohort, metastatic tissue and plasma were collected
contemporaneously from eight ER-positive and four ER-negative patients. Tissue
biopsies were sequenced by NGS, and ptDNA ESR1 mutations were analyzed by ddPCR.
RESULTS: In the retrospective cohort, all corresponding mutations were detected
in ptDNA, with two patients harboring additional ESR1 mutations not present in
their metastatic tissues. In the prospective cohort, three ER-positive patients
did not have adequate tissue for NGS, and no ESR1 mutations were identified in
tissue biopsies from the other nine patients. In contrast, ddPCR detected seven
ptDNA ESR1 mutations in 6 of 12 patients (50%).
CONCLUSIONS: We show that ESR1 mutations can occur at a high frequency and
suggest that blood can be used to identify additional mutations not found by
sequencing of a single metastatic lesion.

©2015 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-0943 
PMCID: PMC4993201
PMID: 26261103  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: of Potential Conflicts of Interest: B.H.P. is a
paid consultant for Novartis and is a member of the scientific advisory boards of
Horizon Discovery, LTD and Loxo Oncology, and has research contracts with Genomic
Health, Inc and Foundation Medicine. Under separate licensing agreements between 
Horizon Discovery, LTD and The Johns Hopkins University, B.H.P. is entitled to a 
share of royalties received by the University on sales of products. The terms of 
this arrangement are being managed by the Johns Hopkins University, in accordance
with its conflict of interest policies. D.F.H. has received clinical and
laboratory research funding from Janssen, AstraZeneca, and Pfizer. The University
of Michigan holds two patents regarding isolation and characterization of
circulating tumor cells, one of which has been licensed to Janssen, naming D.F.H.
as the inventor. D.F.H. also has stock options in two diagnostic companies:
InBiomotion and OncImmune. None of these conflicts pertains to this manuscript.
All other authors declare no potential conflicts.


669. ACS Nano. 2015 Oct 27;9(10):9564-72. doi: 10.1021/acsnano.5b04429. Epub 2015 Aug 
26.

Detecting and Number Counting of Single Engineered Nanoparticles by Digital
Particle Polymerase Chain Reaction.

Paunescu D(1), Mora CA(1), Querci L(2), Heckel R(3), Puddu M(1), Hattendorf B(2),
Günther D(2), Grass RN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Chemical and Bioengineering, ETH Zurich , Vladimir-Prelog-Weg 1,
8093 Zurich, Switzerland. (2)Laboratory of Inorganic Chemistry, ETH Zurich ,
Vladimir-Prelog-Weg 1, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland. (3)IBM Research , Säumerstrasse 
4, 8803 Rüschlikon, Switzerland.

The concentrations of nanoparticles present in colloidal dispersions are usually 
measured and given in mass concentration (e.g. mg/mL), and number concentrations 
can only be obtained by making assumptions about nanoparticle size and
morphology. Additionally traditional nanoparticle concentration measures are not 
very sensitive, and only the presence/absence of millions/billions of particles
occurring together can be obtained. Here, we describe a method, which not only
intrinsically results in number concentrations, but is also sensitive enough to
count individual nanoparticles, one by one. To make this possible, the
sensitivity of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was combined with a binary
(=0/1, yes/no) measurement arrangement, binomial statistics and DNA comprising
monodisperse silica nanoparticles. With this method, individual tagged particles 
in the range of 60-250 nm could be detected and counted in drinking water in
absolute number, utilizing a standard qPCR device within 1.5 h of measurement
time. For comparison, the method was validated with single particle inductively
coupled plasma mass spectrometry (sp-ICPMS).

DOI: 10.1021/acsnano.5b04429 
PMID: 26258812  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. J Biomed Sci. 2015 Aug 8;22:66. doi: 10.1186/s12929-015-0170-y.

Relevance of retrovirus quantification in cerebrospinal fluid for neurologic
diagnosis.

Rosadas C(1,)(2), Puccioni-Sohler M(3,)(4,)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Cerebrospinal Fluid Laboratory, Hospital Universitário Clementino Fraga Filho,
Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rua Professor Rodolpho Paulo Rocco 255,
3°andar, Rio de Janeiro, 21941-913, Brazil. carolrosadas@gmail.com.
(2)Laboratório de Líquido Cefalorraquiano, Serviço de Patologia Clínica, Hospital
Universitário Clementino Fraga Filho, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rua
Professor Rodolpho Paulo Rocco 255, 3 ± andar, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, 21941-913,
Brazil. carolrosadas@gmail.com. (3)Cerebrospinal Fluid Laboratory, Hospital
Universitário Clementino Fraga Filho, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rua
Professor Rodolpho Paulo Rocco 255, 3°andar, Rio de Janeiro, 21941-913, Brazil.
mpuccioni@hucff.ufrj.br. (4)Neuroinfection Unit, Hospital Universitário Gaffrée e
Guinle, Universidade Federal do Estado do Rio de Janeiro, Rua Mariz e Barros,
775, Rio de Janeiro, 20270-004, Brazil. mpuccioni@hucff.ufrj.br. (5)Laboratório
de Líquido Cefalorraquiano, Serviço de Patologia Clínica, Hospital Universitário 
Clementino Fraga Filho, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rua Professor
Rodolpho Paulo Rocco 255, 3 ± andar, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, 21941-913, Brazil.
mpuccioni@hucff.ufrj.br.

Different human retroviruses, such as Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) and
Human T-cell Lymphotropic Virus (HTLV), can cause neurologic infection. However, 
a definitive diagnosis may be hampered by several factors. Quantification of the 
viral or proviral load in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) may be helpful in the
diagnosis of nervous system disorders due to retroviral infection and may
influence the treatment approach. The present work discusses retrovirus infection
and neurologic impairment, as well as the usefulness of the determination of the 
HIV and HTLV proviral or viral load in cerebrospinal fluid in cases of neurologic
disorder, in light of recent advances in this field. This study also discusses
the different molecular techniques for quantifying the proviral load (real-time
quantitative PCR, droplet digital PCR, and semi-nested real-time reverse
transcription PCR) that are currently available.

DOI: 10.1186/s12929-015-0170-y 
PMCID: PMC4528684
PMID: 26253430  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Mol Genet Genomic Med. 2015 Jul;3(4):248-57. doi: 10.1002/mgg3.141. Epub 2015 Mar
21.

SMN1 and SMN2 copy numbers in cell lines derived from patients with spinal
muscular atrophy as measured by array digital PCR.

Stabley DL(1), Harris AW(2), Holbrook J(1), Chubbs NJ(3), Lozo KW(3), Crawford
TO(4), Swoboda KJ(5), Funanage VL(6), Wang W(6), Mackenzie W(7), Scavina M(8),
Sol-Church K(1), Butchbach ME(9).

Author information: 
(1)Nemours Biomolecular Core Laboratory, Nemours Biomedical Research, Nemours
Alfred I. duPont Hospital for Children Wilmington, Delaware. (2)Center for
Applied Clinical Genomics, Nemours Biomedical Research, Nemours Alfred I. duPont 
Hospital for Children Wilmington, Delaware. (3)Department of Biological Sciences,
University of Delaware Newark, Delaware. (4)Department of Neurology, Johns
Hopkins University Baltimore, Maryland ; Department of Pediatrics, Johns Hopkins 
University Baltimore, Maryland. (5)Neurogenetics Research Program, Center for
Human Genetics Research, Massachusetts General Hospital Boston, Massachusetts.
(6)Center for Applied Clinical Genomics, Nemours Biomedical Research, Nemours
Alfred I. duPont Hospital for Children Wilmington, Delaware ; Center for
Pediatric Research, Nemours Biomedical Research, Nemours Alfred I. duPont
Hospital for Children Wilmington, Delaware ; Department of Pediatrics, Thomas
Jefferson University Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. (7)Division of Orthopedics,
Nemours Alfred I. duPont Hospital for Children Wilmington, Delaware. (8)Division 
of Neurology, Nemours Alfred I. duPont Hospital for Children Wilmington,
Delaware. (9)Center for Applied Clinical Genomics, Nemours Biomedical Research,
Nemours Alfred I. duPont Hospital for Children Wilmington, Delaware ; Department 
of Biological Sciences, University of Delaware Newark, Delaware ; Center for
Pediatric Research, Nemours Biomedical Research, Nemours Alfred I. duPont
Hospital for Children Wilmington, Delaware ; Department of Pediatrics, Thomas
Jefferson University Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Proximal spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is an early-onset motor neuron disease
characterized by loss of α-motor neurons and associated muscle atrophy. SMA is
caused by deletion or other disabling mutation of survival motor neuron 1 (SMN1).
In the human genome, a large duplication of the SMN-containing region gives rise 
to a second copy of this gene (SMN2) that is distinguishable by a single
nucleotide change in exon 7. Within the SMA population, there is substantial
variation in SMN2 copy number; in general, those individuals with SMA who have a 
high SMN2 copy number have a milder disease. Because SMN2 functions as a disease 
modifier, its accurate copy number determination may have clinical relevance. In 
this study, we describe the development of an assay to assess SMN1 and SMN2 copy 
numbers in DNA samples using an array-based digital PCR (dPCR) system. This dPCR 
assay can accurately and reliably measure the number of SMN1 and SMN2 copies in
DNA samples. In a cohort of SMA patient-derived cell lines, the assay confirmed a
strong inverse correlation between SMN2 copy number and disease severity. Array
dPCR is a practical technique to determine, accurately and reliably, SMN1 and
SMN2 copy numbers from SMA samples.

DOI: 10.1002/mgg3.141 
PMCID: PMC4521962
PMID: 26247043 


672. J Undergrad Neurosci Educ. 2015 Jul 7;13(3):A174-83. eCollection 2015.

Gel Scramble: An E-Tool for Teaching Molecular Neuroscience.

Grisham W(1), Keller L(2), Schottler N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of California at Los Angeles, Los
Angeles, CA 90095; (2)Department of Biology, Quinnipiac University, Hamden, CT
06518.

In this completely digital teaching module, students interpret the results of two
separate procedures: a restriction endonuclease digestion, and a polymerase chain
reaction (PCR). The first consists of matching restriction endonuclease digest
protocols with images obtained from stained agarose gels. Students are given the 
sequence of six plasmid cDNAs, characteristics of the plasmid vector, and the
endonuclease digest protocols, which specify the enzyme(s) used. Students
calculate the expected lengths of digestion products using this information and
free tools available on the web. Students learn how to read gels and then match
their predicted fragment lengths to the digital images obtained from the gel
electrophoresis of the cDNA digest. In the PCR experiment, students are given six
cDNA sequences and six sets of primers. By querying NCBI BLAST, students can
match the PCR fragments to the lengths of the predicted in silico PCR products.
The ruse posed to students is that the gels were inadvertently mislabeled during 
processing. Although students know the experimental details, they do not know
which gel goes with a given restriction endonuclease digest or PCR-they must
deduce the answers. Because the gel images are from actual students' experiments,
the data sometimes result from mishandling/mislabeling or faulty protocol
execution. The most challenging part of the exercise is to explain these errors. 
This latter aspect requires students to use critical thinking skills to explain
aberrant outcomes. This entire exercise is available in a digital format and
downloadable for free at http://mdcune.psych.ucla.edu/modules/gel.


PMCID: PMC4521735
PMID: 26240527 


673. Sci Rep. 2015 Aug 4;5:12715. doi: 10.1038/srep12715.

A highly sensitive and specific method for the screening detection of genetically
modified organisms based on digital PCR without pretreatment.

Fu W(1), Zhu P(2), Wang C(2), Huang K(3), Du Z(4), Tian W(3), Wang Q(1), Wang
H(1), Xu W(3), Zhu S(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Institute of Plant Quarantine, Chinese Academy of Inspection and
Quarantine, Beijing, 100029, China. (2)Laboratory of Food Safety, College of Food
Science and Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing
100083, China. (3)1] Laboratory of Food Safety, College of Food Science and
Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100083, China [2]
The Supervision, Inspection and Testing Center of Genetically Modified Organisms,
Ministry of Agriculture, Beijing, 100083, China. (4)Guangxi Entry-Exit Inspection
and Quarantine Bureau, Guangxi, 530028, China.

Digital PCR has developed rapidly since it was first reported in the 1990 s. It
was recently reported that an improved method facilitated the detection of
genetically modified organisms (GMOs). However, to use this improved method, the 
samples must be pretreated, which could introduce inaccuracy into the results. In
our study, we explored a pretreatment-free digital PCR detection method for the
screening for GMOs. We chose the CaMV35s promoter and the NOS terminator as the
templates in our assay. To determine the specificity of our method, 9 events of
GMOs were collected, including MON810, MON863, TC1507, MIR604, MIR162, GA21, T25,
NK603 and Bt176. Moreover, the sensitivity, intra-laboratory and inter-laboratory
reproducibility of our detection method were assessed. The results showed that
the limit of detection of our method was 0.1%, which was lower than the labeling 
threshold level of the EU. The specificity and stability among the 9 events were 
consistent, respectively. The intra-laboratory and inter-laboratory
reproducibility were both good. Finally, the perfect fitness for the detection of
eight double-blind samples indicated the good practicability of our method. In
conclusion, the method in our study would allow more sensitive, specific and
stable screening detection of the GMO content of international trading products.

DOI: 10.1038/srep12715 
PMCID: PMC4530665
PMID: 26239916  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. J Biotechnol. 2015 Oct 10;211:130-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2015.07.018. Epub
2015 Jul 30.

Effects of proton exchange membrane on the performance and microbial community
composition of air-cathode microbial fuel cells.

Lee YY(1), Kim TG(1), Cho KS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Science and Engineering, Ewha Womans University,
Seoul 120-750, Republic of Korea. (2)Department of Environmental Science and
Engineering, Ewha Womans University, Seoul 120-750, Republic of Korea. Electronic
address: kscho@ewha.ac.kr.

This study investigated the effects of proton exchange membranes (PEMs) on
performance and microbial community of air-cathode microbial fuel cells (MFCs).
Air-cathode MFCs with reactor volume of 1L were constructed in duplicate with or 
without PEM (designated as ACM-MFC and AC-MFC, respectively) and fed with a
mixture of glucose and acetate (1:1, w:w). The maximum power density and
coulombic efficiency did not differ between MFCs in the absence or presence of a 
PEM. However, PEM use adversely affected maximum voltage production and the rate 
of organic compound removal (p<0.05). Quantitative droplet digital PCR indicated 
that AC-MFCs had a greater bacterial population than ACM-MFCs (p<0.05). Likewise,
ribosomal tag pyrosequencing revealed that the diversity index of bacterial
communities was greater for AC-MFCs (p<0.05). Network analysis revealed that the 
most abundant genus was Enterococcus, which comprised ≥62% of the community and
was positively associated with PEM and negatively associated with the rate of
chemical oxygen demand (COD) removal (Pearson correlation>0.9 and p<0.05).
Geobacter, which is known as an exoelectrogen, was positively associated with
maximum power density and negatively associated with PEM. Thus, these results
suggest that the absence of PEM favored the growth of Geobacter, a key player for
electricity generation in MFC systems. Taken together, these findings demonstrate
that MFC systems without PEM are more efficient with respect to power production 
and COD removal as well as exoelectrogen growth.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2015.07.018 
PMID: 26235818  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Clin Biochem. 2015 Oct;48(15):993-8. doi: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2015.07.097. Epub
2015 Jul 31.

Comparison of cell stabilizing blood collection tubes for circulating plasma
tumor DNA.

Toro PV(1), Erlanger B(1), Beaver JA(1), Cochran RL(1), VanDenBerg DA(1), Yakim
E(1), Cravero K(1), Chu D(1), Zabransky DJ(1), Wong HY(1), Croessmann S(1),
Parsons H(1), Hurley PJ(2), Lauring J(1), Park BH(3).

Author information: 
(1)The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, The Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA. (2)The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer
Center, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA; The 
Brady Urologic Institute, Department of Urology, USA. (3)The Sidney Kimmel
Comprehensive Cancer Center, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD, USA; The Whiting School of Engineering, Department of Chemical and
Biomolecular Engineering, The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA.
Electronic address: bpark2@jhmi.edu.

OBJECTIVES: Circulating plasma DNA is being increasingly used for biomedical and 
clinical research as a substrate for genetic testing. However, cell lysis can
occur hours after venipuncture when using standard tubes for blood collection,
leading to an increase in contaminating cellular DNA that may hinder analysis of 
circulating plasma DNA. Cell stabilization agents can prevent cellular lysis for 
several days, reducing the need for immediate plasma preparation after
venipuncture, thereby facilitating the ease of blood collection and sample
preparation for clinical research. However, the majority of cell stabilizing
reagents have not been formally tested for their ability to preserve circulating 
plasma tumor DNA.
DESIGN & METHODS: In this study, we compared the properties of two cell
stabilizing reagents, the cell-free DNA BCT tube and the PAXgene tube, by
collecting blood samples from metastatic breast cancer patients and measuring
genome equivalents of plasma DNA by droplet digital PCR. We compared wild type
PIK3CA genome equivalents and also assayed for two PIK3CA hotspot mutations,
E545K and H1047R.
RESULTS: Our results demonstrate that blood stored for 7 days in BCT tubes did
not show evidence of cell lysis, whereas PAXgene tubes showed an order of
magnitude increase in genome equivalents, indicative of considerable cellular
lysis.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that BCT tubes can prevent lysis and cellular release of
genomic DNA of blood samples from cancer patients when stored at room
temperature, and could therefore be of benefit for blood specimen collections in 
clinical trials.

Copyright © 2015 The Canadian Society of Clinical Chemists. Published by Elsevier
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2015.07.097 
PMCID: PMC4600652
PMID: 26234639  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Lung Cancer. 2015 Oct;90(1):78-84. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2015.07.002. Epub 2015 
Jul 15.

Genomic variations in plasma cell free DNA differentiate early stage lung cancers
from normal controls.

Xia S(1), Huang CC(2), Le M(3), Dittmar R(4), Du M(5), Yuan T(6), Guo Y(7), Wang 
Y(8), Wang X(9), Tsai S(10), Suster S(11), Mackinnon AC(12), Wang L(13).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology, Tongji Hospital of Tongji Medical College, Huazhong
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430030, China; Department of
Pathology and MCW Cancer Center, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI
53226, USA. Electronic address: xiashutj@gmail.com. (2)Department of
Biostatistics, University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI 53201, USA. Electronic
address: huangcc@uwm.edu. (3)Department of Pathology and MCW Cancer Center,
Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI 53226, USA. Electronic address:
mle@mcw.edu. (4)Department of Pathology and MCW Cancer Center, Medical College of
Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI 53226, USA. Electronic address: rdittmar@mcw.edu.
(5)Department of Pathology and MCW Cancer Center, Medical College of Wisconsin,
Milwaukee, WI 53226, USA. Electronic address: mdu@mcw.edu. (6)Department of
Pathology and MCW Cancer Center, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI
53226, USA. Electronic address: tyuan@mcw.edu. (7)Department of Pathology and MCW
Cancer Center, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI 53226, USA. Electronic
address: gyongchen@mcw.edu. (8)Department of Pathology and MCW Cancer Center,
Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI 53226, USA. Electronic address:
yuwang@mcw.edu. (9)Department of Biostatistics, University of Wisconsin,
Milwaukee, WI 53201, USA. Electronic address: xuexia@uwm.edu. (10)Department of
Surgery, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI 53226, USA. Electronic
address: stsai@mcw.edu. (11)Department of Pathology and MCW Cancer Center,
Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI 53226, USA. Electronic address:
ssuster@mcw.edu. (12)Department of Pathology and MCW Cancer Center, Medical
College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI 53226, USA. Electronic address:
amackinnon@mcw.edu. (13)Department of Pathology and MCW Cancer Center, Medical
College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI 53226, USA. Electronic address:
liwang@mcw.edu.

OBJECTIVES: Cell free tumor DNA (cfDNA) circulating in blood has a great
potential as biomarker for cancer clinical management. The objective of this
study is to evaluate if cfDNA in blood plasma is detectable in early stage lung
cancer patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We extracted cfDNAs and tumor tissue DNAs from 8 lung
adenocarcinoma patients. We also extracted cfDNAs from 8 normal controls. To
evaluate copy number variations (CNV) and identify potential mutations, we
performed low pass whole genome sequencing and targeted sequencing of 50 cancer
genes. To accurately reflect the tumor-associated genomic abnormality burden in
plasma, we developed a new scoring algorithm, plasma genomic abnormality (PGA)
score, by summarizing absolute log2 ratios in most variable genomic regions. We
performed digital PCR and allele-specific PCR to validate mutations detected by
targeted sequencing.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: The median yield of cfDNA in 400 ul plasma was 4.9 ng
(range 2.25-26.98 ng) in patients and 2.32 ng (range 1.30-2.81 ng) in controls
(p=0.003). The whole genome sequencing generated approximately 20 million
mappable sequence reads per subject and 5303 read counts per 1Mb genomic region. 
Log2 ratio-based CNV analysis showed significant chromosomal abnormality in
cancer tissue DNAs and subtle but detectable differences in cfDNAs between
patients and controls. Genomic abnormality analysis showed that median PGA score 
was 9.28 (7.38-11.08) in the 8 controls and 19.50 (5.89-64.47) in the 8 patients 
(p=0.01). Targeted deep sequencing in tumor tissues derived from the 8 patients
identified 14 mutations in 12 different genes. The PCR-based assay confirmed 3 of
6 selected mutations in cfDNAs. These results demonstrated that the PGA score and
cfDNA mutational analysis could be useful tool for the early detection of lung
cancer. These blood-based genomic and genetic assays are noninvasive and may
sensitively distinguish early stage disease when combined with other existing
screening strategies including low-dose CT scanning.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2015.07.002 
PMID: 26233568  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Biosens Bioelectron. 2015 Dec 15;74:836-42. doi: 10.1016/j.bios.2015.07.048. Epub
2015 Jul 22.

Absolute quantification of lung cancer related microRNA by droplet digital PCR.

Wang P(1), Jing F(2), Li G(3), Wu Z(1), Cheng Z(1), Zhang J(2), Zhang H(2), Jia
C(2), Jin Q(2), Mao H(4), Zhao J(5).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Transducer Technology, Shanghai Institute of
Microsystem and Information Technology, Chinese Academy of Science, Shanghai
200050, China; University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100039, China. 
(2)State Key Laboratory of Transducer Technology, Shanghai Institute of
Microsystem and Information Technology, Chinese Academy of Science, Shanghai
200050, China. (3)State Key Laboratory of Transducer Technology, Shanghai
Institute of Microsystem and Information Technology, Chinese Academy of Science, 
Shanghai 200050, China; School of Optoelectronic Engineering, Chongqing
University, Chongqing 400044, China. (4)State Key Laboratory of Transducer
Technology, Shanghai Institute of Microsystem and Information Technology, Chinese
Academy of Science, Shanghai 200050, China. Electronic address:
hjmao@mail.sim.ac.cn. (5)State Key Laboratory of Transducer Technology, Shanghai 
Institute of Microsystem and Information Technology, Chinese Academy of Science, 
Shanghai 200050, China. Electronic address: jlzhao@mail.sim.ac.cn.

Digital polymerase chain reaction (digital PCR) enables the absolute
quantification of nucleic acids through the counting of single molecules, thus
eliminating the need for standard curves or endogenous controls. In this study,
we developed a droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) system based on an oil saturated PDMS 
(OSP) microfluidic chip platform for quantification of lung cancer related
microRNA (miRNA). The OSP chip was made with PDMS and was oil saturated to
constrain oil swallow and maintain the stability of droplets. Two inlets were
designed for oil and sample injection with a syringe pump at the outlet. Highly
uniform monodisperse water-in-oil emulsion droplets to be used for subsequent
detection and analysis were generated at the cross section of the channel. We
compared miRNA quantification by the ddPCR system and quantitative real-time PCR 
(qPCR) to demonstrate that the ddPCR system was superior to qPCR both in its
detection limit and smaller fold changes measurement. This droplet PCR system
provides new possibilities for highly sensitive and efficient detection of
cancer-related genes.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bios.2015.07.048 
PMID: 26232679  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Gene. 2015 Dec 10;574(1):61-8. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2015.07.079. Epub 2015 Jul 29.

Genome-wide identification, classification and analysis of HD-ZIP gene family in 
citrus, and its potential roles in somatic embryogenesis regulation.

Ge XX(1), Liu Z(2), Wu XM(2), Chai LJ(2), Guo WW(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Horticultural Plant Biology (Ministry of Education),
Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan 430070, China; Center of Applied
Biotechnology, Wuhan Institute of Bioengineering, Wuhan 430415, China. Electronic
address: gexiaoxia15@aliyun.com. (2)Key Laboratory of Horticultural Plant Biology
(Ministry of Education), Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan 430070, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Horticultural Plant Biology (Ministry of Education),
Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan 430070, China. Electronic address:
guoww@mail.hzau.edu.cn.

The homeodomain-leucine zipper (HD-Zip) transcription factors, which belong to a 
class of Homeobox proteins, has been reported to be involved in different
biological processes of plants, including growth and development,
photomorphogenesis, flowering, fruit ripening and adaptation responses to
environmental stresses. In this study, 27 HD-Zip genes (CsHBs) were identified in
Citrus. Based on the phylogenetic analysis and characteristics of individual gene
or protein, the HD-Zip gene family in Citrus can be classified into 4
subfamilies, i.e. HD-Zip I, HD-Zip II, HD-Zip III, and HD-Zip IV containing 16,
2, 4, and 5 members respectively. The digital expression patterns of 27 HD-Zip
genes were analyzed in the callus, flower, leaf and fruit of Citrus sinensis. The
qRT-PCR and RT-PCR analyses of six selected HD-Zip genes were performed in six
citrus cultivars with different embryogenic competence and in the embryo
induction stages, which revealed that these genes were differentially expressed
and might be involved in citrus somatic embryogenesis (SE). The results exhibited
that the expression of CsHB1 was up-regulated in somatic embryo induction
process, and its expression was higher in citrus cultivars with high embryogenic 
capacity than in cultivars recalcitrant to form somatic embryos. Moreover, a
microsatellite site of three nucleotide repeats was found in CsHB1 gene among
eighteen citrus genotypes, indicating the possible association of CsHB1 gene to
the capacity of callus induction.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2015.07.079 
PMID: 26232336  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Biosens Bioelectron. 2015 Dec 15;74:770-7. doi: 10.1016/j.bios.2015.07.016. Epub 
2015 Jul 10.

A microfluidic droplet digital PCR for simultaneous detection of pathogenic
Escherichia coli O157 and Listeria monocytogenes.

Bian X(1), Jing F(2), Li G(2), Fan X(2), Jia C(2), Zhou H(2), Jin Q(3), Zhao
J(4).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Transducer Technology, Shanghai Institute of
Microsystem and Information Technology, Chinese Academy of Science, No. 865
Changning Road, Shanghai 200050, People's Republic of China; College of Food
Science and Technology, Shanghai Ocean University, No. 999 Hu Cheng Huan Road,
Shanghai 201306, People's Republic of China. (2)State Key Laboratory of
Transducer Technology, Shanghai Institute of Microsystem and Information
Technology, Chinese Academy of Science, No. 865 Changning Road, Shanghai 200050, 
People's Republic of China. (3)State Key Laboratory of Transducer Technology,
Shanghai Institute of Microsystem and Information Technology, Chinese Academy of 
Science, No. 865 Changning Road, Shanghai 200050, People's Republic of China.
Electronic address: jinqh@mail.sim.ac.cn. (4)State Key Laboratory of Transducer
Technology, Shanghai Institute of Microsystem and Information Technology, Chinese
Academy of Science, No. 865 Changning Road, Shanghai 200050, People's Republic of
China. Electronic address: jlzhao@mail.sim.ac.cn.

Sensitive and rapid identification of pathogenic bacterial is extremely important
due to the serious threat of pathogens to human health. In this study, we
demonstrate the simultaneous and sensitive detection of pathogenic Escherichia
coli O157 and Listeria monocytogenes using a novel duplex droplet digital PCR
(ddPCR) platform. The ddPCR platform, which uses a mineral oil-saturated
polydimethylsiloxane (OSP) chip to overcome the problem of droplet evaporation,
integrates the functions of droplet generation, on-chip amplification and
end-point fluorescence readout. Simultaneous detection of two kinds of bacterial 
is achieved by the design of differentially labeled TaqMan-MGB fluorescent
probes. Compared with a quantitative real-time PCR approach, the OSP chip-based
duplex ddPCR platform exhibits high sensitivity, which is at the level of single 
molecule resolution without significant cross-assay interference. Moreover, the
applicability of the proposed method is also evaluated in artificially
contaminated drinking water sample, which displays a low detection limit down to 
10 CFU/mL for both pathogenic bacterial within 2 h.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bios.2015.07.016 
PMID: 26226346  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Front Plant Sci. 2015 Jul 7;6:502. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2015.00502. eCollection
2015.

Genome-wide digital transcript analysis of putative fruitlet abscission related
genes regulated by ethephon in litchi.

Li C(1), Wang Y(2), Ying P(1), Ma W(1), Li J(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory for Conservation and Utilization of Subtropical
Agro-Bioresources, China Litchi Research Center, South China Agricultural
University Guangzhou, China ; Physiological Laboratory for South China Fruits,
College of Horticulture, South China Agricultural University Guangzhou, China.
(2)Physiological Laboratory for South China Fruits, College of Horticulture,
South China Agricultural University Guangzhou, China ; Bioinformation Department,
Beijing Genomics Institute at Shenzhen Shenzhen, China.

The high level of physiological fruitlet abscission in litchi (Litchi chinensis
Sonn.) causes severe yield loss. Cell separation occurs at the fruit abscission
zone (FAZ) and can be triggered by ethylene. However, a deep knowledge of the
molecular events occurring in the FAZ is still unknown. Here, genome-wide digital
transcript abundance (DTA) analysis of putative fruit abscission related genes
regulated by ethephon in litchi were studied. More than 81 million high quality
reads from seven ethephon treated and untreated control libraries were obtained
by high-throughput sequencing. Through DTA profile analysis in combination with
Gene Ontology and KEGG pathway enrichment analyses, a total of 2730 statistically
significant candidate genes were involved in the ethephon-promoted litchi
fruitlet abscission. Of these, there were 1867 early-responsive genes whose
expressions were up- or down-regulated from 0 to 1 d after treatment. The most
affected genes included those related to ethylene biosynthesis and signaling,
auxin transport and signaling, transcription factors (TFs), protein
ubiquitination, ROS response, calcium signal transduction, and cell wall
modification. These genes could be clustered into four groups and 13 subgroups
according to their similar expression patterns. qRT-PCR displayed the expression 
pattern of 41 selected candidate genes, which proved the accuracy of our DTA
data. Ethephon treatment significantly increased fruit abscission and ethylene
production of fruitlet. The possible molecular events to control the
ethephon-promoted litchi fruitlet abscission were prompted out. The increased
ethylene evolution in fruitlet would suppress the synthesis and polar transport
of auxin and trigger abscission signaling. To the best of our knowledge, it is
the first time to monitor the gene expression profile occurring in the
FAZ-enriched pedicel during litchi fruit abscission induced by ethephon on the
genome-wide level. This study will contribute to a better understanding for the
molecular regulatory mechanism of fruit abscission in litchi.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2015.00502 
PMCID: PMC4493771
PMID: 26217356 


681. Diabetes. 2015 Nov;64(11):3867-72. doi: 10.2337/db15-0430. Epub 2015 Jul 27.

Elevations in Circulating Methylated and Unmethylated Preproinsulin DNA in
New-Onset Type 1 Diabetes.

Fisher MM(1), Watkins RA(1), Blum J(2), Evans-Molina C(3), Chalasani N(4),
DiMeglio LA(1), Mather KJ(5), Tersey SA(1), Mirmira RG(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis,
IN Center for Diabetes and Metabolic Diseases, Indiana University School of
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN. (2)Center for Diabetes and Metabolic Diseases,
Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN Department of
Microbiology and Immunology, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis,
IN. (3)Center for Diabetes and Metabolic Diseases, Indiana University School of
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN Department of Medicine, Indiana University School of
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN Department of Cellular and Integrative Physiology,
Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN Department of
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Indiana University School of Medicine,
Indianapolis, IN. (4)Center for Diabetes and Metabolic Diseases, Indiana
University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN Department of Medicine, Indiana
University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN Department of Cellular and
Integrative Physiology, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN. 
(5)Center for Diabetes and Metabolic Diseases, Indiana University School of
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN Department of Medicine, Indiana University School of
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN. (6)Department of Pediatrics, Indiana University
School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN Center for Diabetes and Metabolic Diseases, 
Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN Department of Medicine,
Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN Department of Cellular
and Integrative Physiology, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, 
IN Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Indiana University School of
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN rmirmira@iu.edu.

Elevated ratios of circulating unmethylated to methylated preproinsulin (INS) DNA
have been suggested to reflect β-cell death in type 1 diabetes (T1D). We tested
the hypothesis that absolute levels (rather than ratios) of unmethylated and
methylated INS DNA differ between subjects with new-onset T1D and control
subjects and assessed longitudinal changes in these parameters. We used droplet
digital PCR to measure levels of unmethylated and methylated INS DNA in serum
from subjects at T1D onset and at 8 weeks and 1 year post-onset. Compared with
control subjects, levels of both unmethylated and methylated INS DNA were
elevated at T1D onset. At 8 weeks post-onset, methylated INS DNA remained
elevated, but unmethylated INS DNA fell. At 1 year postonset, both unmethylated
and methylated INS DNA returned to control levels. Subjects with obesity, type 2 
diabetes, and autoimmune hepatitis exhibited lower levels of unmethylated and
methylated INS compared with subjects with T1D at onset and no differences
compared with control subjects. Our study shows that elevations in both
unmethylated and methylated INS DNA occurs in new-onset T1D and that levels of
these DNA species change during T1D evolution. Our work emphasizes the need to
consider absolute levels of differentially methylated DNA species as potential
biomarkers of disease.

© 2015 by the American Diabetes Association. Readers may use this article as long
as the work is properly cited, the use is educational and not for profit, and the
work is not altered.

DOI: 10.2337/db15-0430 
PMCID: PMC4613977
PMID: 26216854  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Cell Mol Biol Lett. 2015 Sep;20(3):351-73. doi: 10.1515/cmble-2015-0019.

Transcriptional profiling of bovine muscle-derived satellite cells during
differentiation in vitro by high throughput RNA sequencing.

Tong HL, Yin HY, Zhang WW, Hu Q, Li SF, Yan YQ, Li GP.

In this study, we utilized high throughput RNA sequencing to obtain a
comprehensive gene expression profile of muscle-derived satellite cells (MDSCs)
upon induction of differentiation. MDSCs were cultured in vitro and RNA was
extracted for sequencing prior to differentiation (MDSC-P), and again during the 
early and late differentiation (MDSC-D1, and MDSC-D3, respectively) stages.
Sequence tags were assembled and analyzed by digital gene expression profile to
screen for differentially expressed genes, Gene Ontology annotation, and pathway 
enrichment analysis. Quantitative real-time PCR was used to confirm the results
of RNA sequencing. Our results indicate that certain of genes were changed during
skeletal muscle cell development, cell cycle progression, and cell metabolism
during differentiation of bovine MDSCs. Furthermore, we identified certain genes 
that could be used as novel candidates for future research of muscle development.
Additionally, the sequencing results indicated that lipid metabolism might be the
predominant cellular process that occurs during MDSC differentiation.

DOI: 10.1515/cmble-2015-0019 
PMID: 26208385  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. PLoS One. 2015 Jul 24;10(7):e0133305. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0133305.
eCollection 2015.

Digital Gene Expression Analysis to Screen Disease Resistance-Relevant Genes from
Leaves of Herbaceous Peony (Paeonia lactiflora Pall.) Infected by Botrytis
cinerea.

Gong S(1), Hao Z(1), Meng J(1), Liu D(1), Wei M(1), Tao J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Crop Genetics and Physiology of Jiangsu Province, College of
Horticulture and Plant Protection, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, Jiangsu, P.R.
China.

Herbaceous peony (Paeonia lactiflora Pall.) is a well-known traditional flower in
China and is widely used for landscaping and garden greening due to its high
ornamental value. However, disease spots usually appear after the flowering of
the plant and may result in the withering of the plant in severe cases. This
study examined the disease incidence in an herbaceous peony field in the Yangzhou
region, Jiangsu Province. Based on morphological characteristics and molecular
data, the disease in this area was identified as a gray mold caused by Botrytis
cinerea. Based on previously obtained transcriptome data, eight libraries
generated from two herbaceous peony cultivars 'Zifengyu' and 'Dafugui' with
different susceptibilities to the disease were then analyzed using digital gene
expression profiling (DGE). Thousands of differentially expressed genes (DEGs)
were screened by comparing the eight samples, and these genes were annotated
using the Gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG)
database. The pathways related to plant-pathogen interaction, secondary
metabolism synthesis and antioxidant system were concentrated, and 51, 76, and 13
disease resistance-relevant candidate genes were identified, respectively. The
expression patterns of these candidate genes differed between the two cultivars: 
their expression of the disease-resistant cultivar 'Zifengyu' sharply increased
during the early stages of infection, while it was relatively subdued in the
disease-sensitive cultivar 'Dafugui'. A selection of ten candidate genes was
evaluated by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) to validate the DGE data. These
results revealed the transcriptional changes that took place during the
interaction of herbaceous peony with B. cinerea, providing insight into the
molecular mechanisms of host resistance to gray mold.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0133305 
PMCID: PMC4514867
PMID: 26208357  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2015 Sep;407(24):7285-94. doi: 10.1007/s00216-015-8890-0. Epub
2015 Jul 22.

Microarray on digital versatile disc for identification and genotyping of
Salmonella and Campylobacter in meat products.

Tortajada-Genaro LA(1), Rodrigo A(2), Hevia E(1), Mena S(1), Niñoles R(1),
Maquieira Á(3).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Int. Reconocimiento Molecular (IDM), Departamento de Química,
Universitat Politècnica de València, Camino de Vera s/n, 46022, Valencia, Spain. 
(2)Asociación de Investigación de la Industria Agroalimentaria (AINIA), Benjamín 
Franklin 5-11, 46980, Paterna, Valencia, Spain. (3)Instituto Int. Reconocimiento 
Molecular (IDM), Departamento de Química, Universitat Politècnica de València,
Camino de Vera s/n, 46022, Valencia, Spain. amaquieira@qim.upv.es.

Highly portable, cost-effective, and rapid-response devices are required for the 
subtyping of the most frequent food-borne bacteria; thereby the sample rejection 
strategies and hygienization techniques along the food chain can be
tailor-designed. Here, a novel biosensor is presented for the generic detection
of Salmonella and Campylobacter and the discrimination between their most
prevalent serovars (Salmonella Enteritidis, Salmonella Typhimurium) and species
(Campylobacter jejuni, Campylobacter coli), respectively. The method is based on 
DNA microarray developed on a standard digital versatile disc (DVD) as support
for a hybridization assay and a DVD driver as scanner. This approach was found to
be highly sensitive (detection limit down to 0.2 pg of genomic DNA), reproducible
(relative standard deviation 4-19 %), and high working capacity (20 samples per
disc). The inclusivity and exclusivity assays indicated that designed
oligonucleotides (primers and probes) were able to discriminate targeted
pathogens from other Salmonella serovars, Campylobacter species, or common
food-borne pathogens potentially present in the indigenous microflora. One
hundred isolates from meat samples, collected in a poultry factory, were analyzed
by the DVD microarraying and fluorescent real-time PCR. An excellent correlation 
was observed for both generic and specific detection (relative sensitivity
93-99 % and relative specificity 93-100 %). Therefore, the developed assay has
been shown to be a reliable tool to be used in routine food safety analysis,
especially in settings with limited infrastructure due to the excellent
efficiency-cost ratio of compact disc technology. Graphical Abstract DNA
microarray performed by DVD technology for pathogen genotyping.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-015-8890-0 
PMID: 26198111  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Sci Rep. 2015 Jul 21;5:12290. doi: 10.1038/srep12290.

Nonfunctional ingestion of plant miRNAs in silkworm revealed by digital droplet
PCR and transcriptome analysis.

Jia L(1), Zhang D(1), Xiang Z(1), He N(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Silkworm Genome Biology, Southwest University, Beibei,
Chongqing 400715, P. R. China.

Since a plant miRNA (miR168) cross-regulating a mammalian transcript was
reported, miRNA-mediated cross-kingdom communication has become one of the most
compelling but controversial topics. In the present study, we used silkworm and
mulberry, which is a model for studies on the interactions between the insect and
its host plant, to address whether miRNA-mediated cross-kingdom communication is 
a common phenomenon. The results of TA clone, Sanger sequencing and droplet
digital PCR demonstrated that several mulberry-derived miRNAs could enter to
silkworm hemolymph and multiple tested tissues. Synthetic miR166b was also
detected in hemolymph and fat body. However, the ingestion of synthetic miR166b
did not play roles in silkworm physiological progress, which was revealed by
RNA-seq analyses, RT-PCR, and phenotypic investigations. Mulberry miRNAs are
convincingly transferred to the silkworm orally and no physiological process
associated with the miRNAs was demonstrable. The results provided a new aspect of
cross-kingdom miRNA transfer.

DOI: 10.1038/srep12290 
PMCID: PMC4508662
PMID: 26195298  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Gene. 2015 Dec 1;573(2):296-302. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2015.07.059. Epub 2015 Jul
17.

Development of retroviral vectors for insertional mutagenesis in medaka haploid
cells.

Lin F(1), Liu Q(1), Yuan Y(1), Hong Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, National University of Singapore,
Singapore. (2)Department of Biological Sciences, National University of
Singapore, Singapore. Electronic address: dbshyh@nus.edu.sg.

Insertional mutagenesis (IM) by retrovirus (RV) is a high-throughput approach for
interrogating gene functions in model species. Haploid cell provides a unique
system for genetic screening by IM and prosperous progress has been achieved in
mammal cells. However, little was known in lower vertebrate cells. Here, we
report development of retroviral vectors (rvSAchCVgfp, rvSAchCVpf and rvSAchSTpf)
and establishment of IM library in medaka haploid cells. Each vector contains a
modified gene trapping (GT) cassette, which could extend the mutated cell
population including GT insertions not in-frame or in weakly expressed genes.
Virus titration determined by flow cytometry showed that rvSAchSTpf possessed the
highest supernatant virus titer (1.5×10(5)TU/ml) in medaka haploid cell, while
rvSAchCVpf produced the lowest titer (2.8×10(4)TU/ml). However, quantification of
proviral DNAs in transduced cells by droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) demonstrated
that the "real titer" may be similar among the three vectors. Furthermore, an IM 
library was established by FACS of haploid cells transduced with rvSAchCVgfp at a
MOI of 0.1. A single copy RV integration in the majority of cells was confirmed
by ddPCR in the library. Notably, there was a significant decrease of haploid
cell percentage after FACS, suggesting potential trapping for survival/growth
essential genes. Our results demonstrated successful development of retroviral
vectors for IM in medaka haploid cells, serving for haploid genetic screening of 
host factors for virus infection and genes underlying certain cellular processes 
in fish model.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2015.07.059 
PMID: 26192464  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Int J Lab Hematol. 2015 Dec;37(6):766-73. doi: 10.1111/ijlh.12404. Epub 2015 Jul 
20.

Real-Time PCR and Droplet Digital PCR: two techniques for detection of the
JAK2(V617F) mutation in Philadelphia-negative chronic myeloproliferative
neoplasms.

Fontanelli G(1), Baratè C(1), Ciabatti E(1,)(2), Guerrini F(1), Grassi S(1), Del 
Re M(3), Morganti R(4), Petrini I(5), Arici R(1), Barsotti S(1), Metelli MR(1),
Danesi R(3), Galimberti S(1).

Author information: 
(1)U.O. Hematology, Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University 
of Pisa, Pisa, Italy. (2)GenOMEC, University of Siena, Siena, Italy. (3)U.O.
Pharmacology, Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of
Pisa, Pisa, Italy. (4)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine,
University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy. (5)Department of Translational Research and New 
Technologies in Medicine, University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: Philadelphia-negative chronic myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs)
are clonal disorders that present JAK2(V617F) mutation in 50-95% of cases. The
main objective of this study was the comparison of two PCR methods, real-time
(qPCR) and droplet digital PCR (DD-PCR) for detection of the JAK2(V617F)
mutation, to assess analytic sensitivity, specificity, and feasibility of the two
methods.
METHODS: Ninety-nine patients with MPN of 225 presenting the JAK2(V617F) mutation
by qPCR have been evaluated by DD-PCR also.
RESULTS: We demonstrated an absolute concordance in terms of specificity between 
the two methods, DD-PCR showing a higher sensitivity (half a log higher than
qPCR). As expected, a progressive increase of mutant allele burden was observed
from essential thrombocythemia (ET) to polycythemia vera (PV) and primary
myelofibrosis (PMF) to secondary myelofibrosis (SMF).
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, our study showed that DD-PCR could represent a new and
promising technological evolution for detection of JAK2 mutation in MPNs.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ijlh.12404 
PMID: 26189968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Biotechnol Lett. 2015 Oct;37(10):2063-73. doi: 10.1007/s10529-015-1890-5. Epub
2015 Jul 18.

A sensitive and accurate quantification method for the detection of hepatitis B
virus covalently closed circular DNA by the application of a droplet digital
polymerase chain reaction amplification system.

Mu D(1), Yan L(2), Tang H(3), Liao Y(4).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology for Infectious Diseases of Ministry of
Education, and The Second Affiliated Hospital, Chongqing Medical University,
Chongqing, 400010, People's Republic of China. mudi0452@163.com. (2)Key
Laboratory of Molecular Biology for Infectious Diseases of Ministry of Education,
and The Second Affiliated Hospital, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing,
400010, People's Republic of China. yanyan_5212@126.com. (3)Key Laboratory of
Molecular Biology for Infectious Diseases of Ministry of Education, and The
Second Affiliated Hospital, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, 400010,
People's Republic of China. tangtanghui@gmail.com. (4)Institute for Viral
Hepatitis, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Chongqing Medical University,
Yixueyuan Rd #1, Yuzhong District, P.O. Box #149, Chongqing, 400010, People's
Republic of China. yongliao@cqmu.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVE: To develop a sensitive and accurate assay system for the
quantification of covalently closed circular HBV DNA (cccDNA) for future clinical
monitoring of cccDNA fluctuation during antiviral therapy in the liver of
infected patients.
RESULTS: A droplet digital PCR (ddPCR)-based assay system detected template DNA
input at the single copy level (or ~10(-5) pg of plasmid HBV DNA) by using
serially diluted plasmid HBV DNA samples. Compared with the conventional
quantitative PCR assay in the detection of cccDNA, which required at least 50 ng 
of template DNA input, a parallel experiment applying a ddPCR system demonstrates
that the lowest detection limit of cccDNA from HepG2.215 cellular DNA samples is 
around 1 ng, which is equivalent to 0.54 ± 0.94 copies of cccDNA. In addition, we
demonstrated that the addition of cccDNA-safe exonuclease and utilization of
cccDNA-specific primers in the ddPCR assay system significantly improved the
detection accuracy of HBV cccDNA from HepG2.215 cellular DNA samples.
CONCLUSION: The ddPCR-based cccDNA detection system is a sensitive and accurate
assay for the quantification of cccDNA in HBV-transfected HepG2.215 cellular DNA 
samples and may represent an important method for future application in
monitoring cccDNA fluctuation during antiviral therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-015-1890-5 
PMID: 26187315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Epigenetics. 2015;10(9):803-9. doi: 10.1080/15592294.2015.1068490. Epub 2015 Jul 
17.

MethyLight droplet digital PCR for detection and absolute quantification of
infrequently methylated alleles.

Yu M(1), Carter KT, Makar KW, Vickers K, Ulrich CM, Schoen RE, Brenner D,
Markowitz SD, Grady WM.

Author information: 
(1)a Clinical Research Division; Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center ; Seattle
, WA USA.

Aberrant DNA methylation is a common epigenetic alteration found in colorectal
adenomas and cancers and plays a role in cancer initiation and progression.
Aberrantly methylated DNA loci can also be found infrequently present in normal
colon tissue, where they seem to have potential to be used as colorectal cancer
(CRC) risk biomarkers. However, detection and precise quantification of the
infrequent methylation events seen in normal colon is likely beyond the
capability of commonly used PCR technologies. To determine the potential for
methylated DNA loci as CRC risk biomarkers, we developed MethyLight droplet
digital PCR (ddPCR) assays and compared their performance to the widely used
conventional MethyLight PCR. Our analyses demonstrated the capacity of MethyLight
ddPCR to detect a single methylated NTRK3 allele from among more than 3125
unmethylated alleles, 25-fold more sensitive than conventional MethyLight PCR.
The MethyLight ddPCR assay detected as little as 19 and 38 haploid genome
equivalents of methylated EVL and methylated NTRK3, respectively, which far
exceeded conventional MethyLight PCR (379 haploid genome equivalents for both
genes). When assessing methylated EVL levels in CRC tissue samples, MethyLight
ddPCR reduced coefficients of variation (CV) to 6-65% of CVs seen with
conventional MethyLight PCR. Importantly, we showed the ability of MethyLight
ddPCR to detect infrequently methylated EVL alleles in normal colon mucosa
samples that could not be detected by conventional MethyLight PCR. This study
suggests that the sensitivity and precision of methylation detection by
MethyLight ddPCR enhances the potential of methylated alleles for use as CRC risk
biomarkers.

DOI: 10.1080/15592294.2015.1068490 
PMCID: PMC4623055
PMID: 26186366  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Am J Transplant. 2015 Oct;15(10):2541-51. doi: 10.1111/ajt.13387. Epub 2015 Jul
16.

Cell-Free DNA: An Upcoming Biomarker in Transplantation.

Gielis EM(1,)(2), Ledeganck KJ(1), De Winter BY(1), Del Favero J(3), Bosmans
JL(1,)(4), Claas FH(2), Abramowicz D(1,)(4), Eikmans M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Medicine and Pediatrics, University of Antwerp,
Antwerp, Belgium. (2)Department of Immunohematology and Blood Transfusion, Leiden
University Medical Center, Leiden, the Netherlands. (3)Multiplicom N. V., Niel,
Belgium. (4)Department of Nephrology and Hypertension, Antwerp University
Hospital, Antwerp, Belgium.

After organ transplantation, donor-derived cell-free DNA (ddcfDNA) can be
detected in the recipient's blood and urine. Different ddcfDNA quantification
techniques have been investigated but a major breakthrough was made with the
introduction of digital droplet PCR and massive parallel sequencing creating the 
opportunity to increase the understanding of ddcfDNA kinetics after
transplantation. The observations of increased levels of ddcfDNA during acute
rejection and even weeks to months before histologic features of graft rejection 
point to a possible role of ddcfDNA as an early, noninvasive rejection marker. In
this review, we summarize published research on ddcfDNA in the transplantation
field thereby elaborating on its clinical utility.

© Copyright 2015 The American Society of Transplantation and the American Society
of Transplant Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1111/ajt.13387 
PMID: 26184824  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Am J Hematol. 2015 Oct;90(10):910-4. doi: 10.1002/ajh.24120. Epub 2015 Sep 10.

Age and dPCR can predict relapse in CML patients who discontinued imatinib: the
ISAV study.

Mori S(1), Vagge E(1), le Coutre P(2), Abruzzese E(3), Martino B(4), Pungolino
E(5), Elena C(6), Pierri I(7), Assouline S(8), D'Emilio A(9), Gozzini A(10),
Giraldo P(11), Stagno F(12), Iurlo A(13), Luciani M(1), De Riso G(1), Redaelli
S(1), Kim DW(14), Pirola A(1), Mezzatesta C(1), Petroccione A(15), Lodolo D'Oria 
A(15), Crivori P(15), Piazza R(1), Gambacorti-Passerini C(1,)(16).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University Of Milano-Bicocca, Monza, Italy.
(2)Department of Haematology And Oncology, Charité - Humboldt-Universität, Campus
Virchow, Berlin, Germany. (3)Department of Haematology, S. Eugenio Hospital, Tor 
Vergata University, Roma, Italy. (4)Department of Haematology, Bianchi Melacrino 
Morelli Hospital, Reggio Calabria, Italy. (5)Department of Haematology, Niguarda 
Ca' Granda Hospital, Milano, Italy. (6)Department of Molecular Medicine,
University of Pavia, Pavia, Italy and Department of Haematology Oncology,
Fondazione IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo, Pavia, Italy. (7)Haematology Clinic,
IRCSS AOU S. Martino-IST, University Of Genova, Genova, Italy. (8)Division of
Haematology, Jewish General Hospital, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(9)Haematology, San Bortolo Hospital, Vicenza, Italy. (10)Haematology, AOU
Careggi, University Of Firenze, Firenze, Italy. (11)Haematology, Hospital
Universitario Miguel Servet, Zaragoza, Spain. (12)Haematology, University Of
Catania, Catania, Italy. (13)Oncohaematology Division, IRCCS Ca' Granda Maggiore 
Policlinico Hospital Foundation, University Of Milano, Milano, Italy.
(14)Haematology Department, Cancer Research Institute, The Catholic University Of
Korea, Seoul, South Korea. (15)Clioss S.R.L., Nerviano (MI), Italy. (16)Clinical 
Research Unit, Haematology, San Gerardo Hospital, Monza, Italy.

Imatinib is effective for the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML).
However even undetectable BCR-ABL1 by Q-RT-PCR does not equate to eradication of 
the disease. Digital-PCR (dPCR), able to detect 1 BCR-ABL1 positive cell out of
10(7) , has been recently developed. The ISAV study is a multicentre trial aimed 
at validating dPCR to predict relapses after imatinib discontinuation in CML
patients with undetectable Q-RT-PCR. CML patients under imatinib therapy since
more than 2 years and with undetectable PCR for at least 18 months were eligible.
Patients were monitored by standard Q-RT-PCR for 36 months. Patients losing
molecular remission (two consecutive positive Q-RT-PCR with at least 1
BCR-ABL1/ABL1 value above 0.1%) resumed imatinib. The study enrolled 112
patients, with a median follow-up of 21.6 months. Fifty-two of the 108 evaluable 
patients (48.1%), relapsed; 73.1% relapsed in the first 9 months but 14 late
relapses were observed between 10 and 22 months. Among the 56 not-relapsed
patients, 40 (37.0% of total) regained Q-RT-PCR positivity but never lost MMR.
dPCR results showed a significant negative predictive value ratio of 1.115 [95%
CI: 1.013-1.227]. An inverse relationship between patients age and risk of
relapse was evident: 95% of patients <45 years relapsed versus 42% in the class
≥45 to <65 years and 33% of patients ≥65 years [P(χ(2) ) < 0.0001]. Relapse rates
ranged between 100% (<45 years, dPCR+) and 36% (>45 years, dPCR-). Imatinib can
be safely discontinued in the setting of continued PCR negativity; age and dPCR
results can predict relapse.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.24120 
PMID: 26178642  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2015;11(10):2490-4. doi: 10.1080/21645515.2015.1063755.

The detection of (total and ccc) HBV DNA in liver transplant recipients with
hepatitis B vaccine against HBV reinfection.

Duan BW(1), Lu SC(2), Lai W(3), Liu XE(4), Liu Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery and Liver Transplantation Program ;
Beijing You-An Hospital; Capital Medical University ; Beijing , China. (2)b
Institute & Hospital of Hepatobiliary Surgery; Key Laboratory of Digital
Hepatobiliary Surgery of Chinese PLA; Chinese PLA Medical School; Chinese PLA
General Hospital ; Beijing , China. (3)c Department of General Surgery ; Chengdu 
First People's Hospital ; Sichuan , China. (4)d Department of Microbiology and
Infectious Disease Center ; School of Basic Medical Sciences; Peking University
Health Science Center ; Beijing , China.

To investigate the levels of hepatitis B virus total DNA (HBV DNA) and covalently
closed circular (ccc) DNA in liver transplant recipients who received hepatitis B
vaccination, including responders and non-responders, following liver
transplantation due to hepatitis B-related diseases and to investigate the
efficacy of hepatitis B immune reconstitution against HBV reinfection. Twenty
responders and 34 non-responders were enrolled in the present study. The levels
of HBV total DNA and ccc DNA in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and
the liver and plasma were detected by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). 
Fifty-three blood samples and 38 liver allograft tissues were acquired. For the
responders, the mean serum titer for anti-HBs (antibodies against hepatitis B
surface antigen) was 289 (46.64-1000) IU/ml. Also for the responders, HBV total
DNA was detected in PBMCs for one recipient and in the liver for another
recipient, but ccc DNA was not detected in either of those 2 recipients. For the 
non-responders, HBV total DNA was detected in PBMCS for 2 recipients, neither of 
whom had ccc DNA. Also for the non-responders, HBV total DNA was detected in the 
livers of 3 recipients, 2 of whom also had ccc DNA. All responders had
discontinued hepatitis B immunoglobulin (HBIG), and 13 responders had
discontinued antiviral agents. One responder experienced HBV recurrence during
the follow-up period. For the majority of liver transplant recipients, no HBV
total DNA or ccc DNA was detected in the blood or liver. The lack of HBV total
DNA and ccc DNA both in PBMCs and the liver in liver transplant recipients who
received hepatitis B vaccination to prevent HBV reinfection should be a
prerequisite for the withdrawal of HBIG and/or antiviral agents.

DOI: 10.1080/21645515.2015.1063755 
PMCID: PMC4635910
PMID: 26177383  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Anal Chem. 2015 Aug 18;87(16):8123-31. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.5b02515. Epub
2015 Jul 29.

Wireless electrochemiluminescence bipolar electrode array for visualized
genotyping of single nucleotide polymorphism.

Khoshfetrat SM(1), Ranjbari M(1), Shayan M(1), Mehrgardi MA(1), Kiani A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Isfahan, Isfahan 81746-73441, Iran.

The development of simple, inexpensive, hand-held, user-friendly biosensor for
high throughput and multiplexed genotyping of various single nucleotide
polymorphisms (SNPs) in a single run experiment by a nonspecialist user is the
main challenge in the analysis of DNA. Visualizing the signal and possibility to 
monitor SNPs by a digital camera opens a new horizon for the routine
applications. In the present manuscript, a novel wireless
electrochemiluminescence (ECL) DNA array is introduced for the visualized
genotyping of different SNPs on the basis of ECL of luminol/hydrogen peroxide
system on a bipolar electrode (BPE) array platform. After modification of anodic 
poles of the array with the DNA probe and its hybridization with the targets,
genotyping of various SNPs is carried out by exposing the array to different
monobase modified luminol-platinum nanoparticles (M-L-PtNPs). Upon the
hybridization of M-L-PtNPs to mismatch sites, the ECL of luminol is followed
using a photomultiplier tube (PMT) or digital camera and the images are analyzed 
by ImageJ software. This biosensor can detect even thermodynamically stable SNP
(G-T mismatches) in the range of 2-600 pM. Also, by combining the advantages of
BPE and the high visual sensitivity of ECL, it could be easily expected to
achieve sensitive screening of different SNPs. The present biosensor demonstrates
the capability for the discrimination between PCR products of normal,
heterozygous, and homozygous beta thalassemia genetic disorders.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.5b02515 
PMID: 26176414  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Anal Chem. 2015 Aug 18;87(16):8218-26. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.5b01208. Epub
2015 Jul 29.

Multiplex quantification of 12 European Union authorized genetically modified
maize lines with droplet digital polymerase chain reaction.

Dobnik D(1), Spilsberg B(2), Bogožalec Košir A(1,)(3), Holst-Jensen A(2), Žel
J(1).

Author information: 
(1)†Department of Biotechnology and Systems Biology, National Institute of
Biology, Večna pot 111, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia. (2)‡Section of Virology,
Norwegian Veterinary Institute, P.O. Box 750, Sentrum, 0106 Oslo, Norway.
(3)§Josef Stefan International Postgraduate School, Jamova 39, 1000 Ljubljana,
Slovenia.

Presence of genetically modified organisms (GMO) in food and feed products is
regulated in many countries. The European Union (EU) has implemented a threshold 
for labeling of products containing more than 0.9% of authorized GMOs per
ingredient. As the number of GMOs has increased over time, standard-curve based
simplex quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) analyses are no longer
sufficiently cost-effective, despite widespread use of initial PCR based
screenings. Newly developed GMO detection methods, also multiplex methods, are
mostly focused on screening and detection but not quantification. On the basis of
droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) technology, multiplex assays for quantification of
all 12 EU authorized GM maize lines (per April first 2015) were developed.
Because of high sequence similarity of some of the 12 GM targets, two separate
multiplex assays were needed. In both assays (4-plex and 10-plex), the transgenes
were labeled with one fluorescence reporter and the endogene with another (GMO
concentration = transgene/endogene ratio). It was shown that both multiplex
assays produce specific results and that performance parameters such as limit of 
quantification, repeatability, and trueness comply with international
recommendations for GMO quantification methods. Moreover, for samples containing 
GMOs, the throughput and cost-effectiveness is significantly improved compared to
qPCR. Thus, it was concluded that the multiplex ddPCR assays could be applied for
routine quantification of 12 EU authorized GM maize lines. In case of new
authorizations, the events can easily be added to the existing multiplex assays. 
The presented principle of quantitative multiplexing can be applied to any other 
domain.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.5b01208 
PMID: 26169291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Biol Open. 2015 Jul 10;4(8):1002-15. doi: 10.1242/bio.012294.

Unraveling dual feeding associated molecular complexity of salivary glands in the
mosquito Anopheles culicifacies.

Sharma P(1), Sharma S(2), Mishra AK(3), Thomas T(2), Das De T(2), Rohilla SL(2), 
Singh N(4), Pandey KC(2), Valecha N(2), Dixit R(5).

Author information: 
(1)Host-Parasite Interaction Biology Group, National Institute of Malaria
Research, Sector-8, Dwarka, Delhi 110077, India Nano and Biotechnology
Department, Guru Jambheshwar University, Hisar, Haryana 125001, India.
(2)Host-Parasite Interaction Biology Group, National Institute of Malaria
Research, Sector-8, Dwarka, Delhi 110077, India. (3)NxGenBio Lifesciences, C-451,
Yojna Vihar, Delhi 110092, India. (4)Nano and Biotechnology Department, Guru
Jambheshwar University, Hisar, Haryana 125001, India. (5)Host-Parasite
Interaction Biology Group, National Institute of Malaria Research, Sector-8,
Dwarka, Delhi 110077, India dixit2k@yahoo.com.

Mosquito salivary glands are well known to facilitate meal acquisition, however
the fundamental question on how adult female salivary gland manages molecular
responses during sugar versus blood meal uptake remains unanswered. To
investigate these responses, we analyzed a total of 58.5 million raw reads
generated from two independent RNAseq libraries of the salivary glands collected 
from 3-4 day-old sugar and blood fed Anopheles culicifacies mosquitoes.
Comprehensive functional annotation analysis of 10,931 contigs unraveled that
salivary glands may encode diverse nature of proteins in response to distinct
physiological feeding status. Digital gene expression analysis and PCR validation
indicated that first blood meal significantly alters the molecular architecture
of the salivary glands. Comparative microscopic analysis also revealed that first
blood meal uptake not only causes an alteration of at least 12-22% of
morphological features of the salivary glands but also results in cellular
changes e.g. apoptosis, confirming together that adult female salivary glands are
specialized organs to manage meal specific responses. Unraveling the underlying
mechanism of mosquito salivary gene expression, controlling dual feeding
associated responses may provide a new opportunity to control vector borne
diseases.

© 2015. Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd.

DOI: 10.1242/bio.012294 
PMCID: PMC4542284
PMID: 26163527 


696. Dig Liver Dis. 2015 Oct;47(10):884-90. doi: 10.1016/j.dld.2015.05.023. Epub 2015 
Jun 5.

Clinical value of chip-based digital-PCR platform for the detection of
circulating DNA in metastatic colorectal cancer.

Sefrioui D(1), Sarafan-Vasseur N(2), Beaussire L(3), Baretti M(4), Gangloff A(5),
Blanchard F(6), Clatot F(7), Sabourin JC(8), Sesboüé R(2), Frebourg T(2), Michel 
P(9), Di Fiore F(10).

Author information: 
(1)Digestive Oncology Unit, Department of Hepato-Gastroenterology, Rouen
University Hospital, Rouen Cedex, France; EquIpe de Recherche Onco-Normande
(IRON), Rouen University Hospital, Rouen Cedex, France; Inserm U1079, University 
of Rouen, Institute for Biomedical Research and Innovation, Rouen Cedex, France. 
Electronic address: david.sefrioui@chu-rouen.fr. (2)EquIpe de Recherche
Onco-Normande (IRON), Rouen University Hospital, Rouen Cedex, France; Inserm
U1079, University of Rouen, Institute for Biomedical Research and Innovation,
Rouen Cedex, France. (3)Digestive Oncology Unit, Department of
Hepato-Gastroenterology, Rouen University Hospital, Rouen Cedex, France; EquIpe
de Recherche Onco-Normande (IRON), Rouen University Hospital, Rouen Cedex,
France; Inserm U1079, University of Rouen, Institute for Biomedical Research and 
Innovation, Rouen Cedex, France; Cancer Center, Humanitas Cinical and Research
Center, Rozzano, Milano, Italy; Department of Pathology, Rouen University
Hospital, Rouen Cedex, France; Department of Medical Oncology, Centre Henri
Becquerel, Rouen Cedex 1, France. (4)Cancer Center, Humanitas Cinical and
Research Center, Rozzano, Milano, Italy. (5)Digestive Oncology Unit, Department
of Hepato-Gastroenterology, Rouen University Hospital, Rouen Cedex, France;
EquIpe de Recherche Onco-Normande (IRON), Rouen University Hospital, Rouen Cedex,
France. (6)EquIpe de Recherche Onco-Normande (IRON), Rouen University Hospital,
Rouen Cedex, France; Department of Pathology, Rouen University Hospital, Rouen
Cedex, France. (7)EquIpe de Recherche Onco-Normande (IRON), Rouen University
Hospital, Rouen Cedex, France; Department of Medical Oncology, Centre Henri
Becquerel, Rouen Cedex 1, France. (8)EquIpe de Recherche Onco-Normande (IRON),
Rouen University Hospital, Rouen Cedex, France; Inserm U1079, University of
Rouen, Institute for Biomedical Research and Innovation, Rouen Cedex, France;
Department of Pathology, Rouen University Hospital, Rouen Cedex, France.
(9)Digestive Oncology Unit, Department of Hepato-Gastroenterology, Rouen
University Hospital, Rouen Cedex, France; EquIpe de Recherche Onco-Normande
(IRON), Rouen University Hospital, Rouen Cedex, France; Inserm U1079, University 
of Rouen, Institute for Biomedical Research and Innovation, Rouen Cedex, France. 
(10)Digestive Oncology Unit, Department of Hepato-Gastroenterology, Rouen
University Hospital, Rouen Cedex, France; EquIpe de Recherche Onco-Normande
(IRON), Rouen University Hospital, Rouen Cedex, France; Inserm U1079, University 
of Rouen, Institute for Biomedical Research and Innovation, Rouen Cedex, France; 
Department of Medical Oncology, Centre Henri Becquerel, Rouen Cedex 1, France.

BACKGROUND: The detection of circulating DNA is considered a promising strategy
in cancer patients. Digital PCR has emerged as a sensitive method able to
quantify both circulating free and tumour DNA.
AIM: The aim of this study was to prospectively evaluate the clinical value of a 
chip-based digital PCR for the detection of circulating DNA.
METHODS: Digital PCR was used in 34 metastatic colorectal cancer patients to
detect and quantify circulating free and tumour DNA based on K-ras mutational
status. Clinical outcomes were analyzed according to circulating DNA
measurements.
RESULTS: Digital PCR yielded a detection rate of 69% for circulating tumour DNA. 
The median concentrations of circulating free and tumour DNA were 20 and 6.8
ng/mL, respectively, with significant correlation between both biomarkers
(p<0.001). Median overall survival was 4.8 months in patients with high
circulating free DNA (>75% quartile) versus not reached in patients with a low
level (<25% quartile) (p=0.029). Moreover, median overall survival was
significantly decreased in patients with detectable circulating tumour DNA
compared to those without (respectively 11.8 months versus not reached, p=0.04).
CONCLUSIONS: Chip-based digital PCR is a simple and non-invasive method allowing 
the efficient detection of circulating DNA. Our results highlight that levels of 
these circulating markers may have a potential prognostic value.

Copyright © 2015 Editrice Gastroenterologica Italiana S.r.l. Published by
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dld.2015.05.023 
PMID: 26160500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. AIDS. 2015 Sep 24;29(15):1953-61. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0000000000000794.

Delayed HIV detection among infants exposed to postnatal antiretroviral
prophylaxis during breastfeeding.

King CC(1), Kourtis AP, Persaud D, Nelson JA, Ziemniak C, Hudgens MG, Tegha G,
Chasela CS, Jamieson DJ, van der Horst CM.

Author information: 
(1)aDivision of Reproductive Health, National Center for Chronic Disease
Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
Atlanta, Georgia bDepartment of Pediatrics, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, 
Maryland, USA cDepartment of Microbiology and Immunology, School of Medicine
dDepartment of Biostatistics, Gillings School of Global Health, University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA eUNC
Project-Malawi, Lilongwe, Malawi fDivision of Epidemiology and Biostatistics,
University of Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa gDivision of Infectious
Diseases, School of Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel
Hill, North Carolina, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to determine whether detection of HIV
infection was delayed in infants exposed to antiretroviral prophylaxis to prevent
HIV transmission during breastfeeding.
DESIGN: The Breastfeeding, Antiretrovirals and Nutrition (BAN) study was a
randomized trial of 2369 mother-infant pairs conducted from 2004 to 2010. In
addition to an intrapartum regimen, all mother-infant pairs were randomly
assigned to three antiretroviral intervention arms during 28 weeks of
breastfeeding: no further antiretroviral prophylaxis (control arm); infant-daily 
nevirapine (nevirapine arm); and maternal zidovudine, lamivudine and either
nevirapine, nelfinavir or lopinavir-ritonavir (maternal arm). After breastfeeding
cessation counselling and stopping the antiretroviral interventions by 28 weeks, 
28 infant HIV infections occurred.
METHODS: To determine whether these infections occurred during the breastfeeding 
and antiretroviral intervention phase but had delayed detection on the
antiretroviral arms, we performed ultrasensitive (droplet digital PCR) HIV
testing on infants with stored peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) specimens
at 24 weeks (n = 9).
RESULTS: Of the nine infants, all three on the infant nevirapine arm had
detectable HIV DNA at 24 weeks, compared with two of four on the maternal
antiretroviral arm and one of two on the control arm. For infants with detectable
HIV at 24 weeks, the median delay in detection between the ultrasensitive and
standard assays was 18.3 weeks for the nevirapine arm, 15.4 weeks for the
maternal arm and 9.4 weeks for the control arm.
CONCLUSION: The prolonged inability to detect HIV with standard assays in the
context of postnatal antiretroviral prophylaxis suggests that early
antiretrovirals may restrict HIV replication sufficiently to lead to missed
diagnosis among infected infants. Therefore, repeat virologic testing is
warranted beyond the WHO-recommended point of testing at 6 weeks after
breastfeeding cessation.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0000000000000794 
PMCID: PMC4665628
PMID: 26153671  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Eur J Histochem. 2015 Apr 27;59(2):2489. doi: 10.4081/ejh.2015.2489.

Infection with CagA-positive Helicobacter pylori strain containing three EPIYA C 
phosphorylation sites is associated with more severe gastric lesions in
experimentally infected Mongolian gerbils (Meriones unguiculatus).

Ferreira Júnior M(1), Batista SA, Vidigal PV, Cordeiro AA, Oliveira FM, Prata LO,
Diniz AE, Barral CM, Barbuto RC, Gomes AD, Araújo ID, Queiroz DM, Caliari MV.

Author information: 
(1)Federal University of Minas Gerais. moacirferreirasantana@yahoo.com.br.

Infection with Helicobacter pylori strains containing high number of EPIYA-C
phosphorylation sites in the CagA is associated with significant gastritis and
increased risk of developing pre-malignant gastric lesions and gastric carcinoma.
However, these findings have not been reproduced in animal models yet. Therefore,
we investigated the effect on the gastric mucosa of Mongolian gerbil (Meriones
unguiculatus) infected with CagA-positive H. pylori strains exhibiting one or
three EPIYA-C phosphorilation sites. Mongolian gerbils were inoculated with H.
pylori clonal isolates containing one or three EPIYA-C phosphorylation sites.
Control group was composed by uninfected animals challenged with Brucella broth
alone. Gastric fragments were evaluated by the modified Sydney System and digital
morphometry. Clonal relatedness between the isolates was considered by the
identical RAPD-PCR profiles and sequencing of five housekeeping genes, vacA i/d
region and of oipA. The other virulence markers were present in both isolates
(vacA s1i1d1m1, iceA2, and intact dupA). CagA of both isolates was translocated
and phosphorylated in AGS cells. After 45 days of infection, there was a
significant increase in the number of inflammatory cells and in the area of the
lamina propria in the infected animals, notably in those infected by the
CagA-positive strain with three EPIYA-C phosphorylation sites. After six months
of infection, a high number of EPIYA-C phosphorylation sites was associated with 
progressive increase in the intensity of gastritis and in the area of the lamina 
propria. Atrophy, intestinal metaplasia, and dysplasia were also observed more
frequently in animals infected with the CagA-positive isolate with three EPIYA-C 
sites.  We conclude that infection with H. pylori strain carrying a high number
of CagA EPIYA-C phosphorylation sites is associated with more severe gastric
lesions in an animal model of H. pylori infection.

DOI: 10.4081/ejh.2015.2489 
PMCID: PMC4503971
PMID: 26150158  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Genome Res. 2015 Aug;25(8):1114-24. doi: 10.1101/gr.187187.114. Epub 2015 Jul 6.

Divergence patterns of genic copy number variation in natural populations of the 
house mouse (Mus musculus domesticus) reveal three conserved genes with major
population-specific expansions.

Pezer Ž(1), Harr B(1), Teschke M(1), Babiker H(1), Tautz D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology, 24306 Plön, Germany.

Comment in
    Sci Data. 2016;3:160075.

Copy number variation represents a major source of genetic divergence, yet the
evolutionary dynamics of genic copy number variation in natural populations
during differentiation and adaptation remain unclear. We applied a read depth
approach to genome resequencing data to detect copy number variants (CNVs) ≥1 kb 
in wild-caught mice belonging to four populations of Mus musculus domesticus. We 
complemented the bioinformatics analyses with experimental validation using
droplet digital PCR. The specific focus of our analysis is CNVs that include
complete genes, as these CNVs could be expected to contribute most directly to
evolutionary divergence. In total, 1863 transcription units appear to be
completely encompassed within CNVs in at least one individual when compared to
the reference assembly. Further, 179 of these CNVs show population-specific copy 
number differences, and 325 are subject to complete deletion in multiple
individuals. Among the most copy-number variable genes are three highly conserved
genes that encode the splicing factor CWC22, the spindle protein SFI1, and the
Holliday junction recognition protein HJURP. These genes exhibit
population-specific expansion patterns that suggest involvement in local
adaptations. We found that genes that overlap with large segmental duplications
are generally more copy-number variable. These genes encode proteins that are
relevant for environmental and behavioral interactions, such as vomeronasal and
olfactory receptors, as well as major urinary proteins and several proteins of
unknown function. The overall analysis shows that genic CNVs contribute more to
population differentiation in mice than in humans and may promote and speed up
population divergence.

© 2015 Pezer et al.; Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.

DOI: 10.1101/gr.187187.114 
PMCID: PMC4509996
PMID: 26149421  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Virchows Arch. 2015 Sep;467(3):357-63. doi: 10.1007/s00428-015-1802-z. Epub 2015 
Jul 7.

BCR-ABL1 e6a2 transcript in chronic myeloid leukemia: biological features and
molecular monitoring by droplet digital PCR.

Zagaria A(1), Anelli L, Coccaro N, Tota G, Casieri P, Cellamare A, Impera L,
Brunetti C, Minervini A, Minervini CF, Delia M, Cumbo C, Orsini P, Specchia G,
Albano F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Emergency and Organ Transplantation (D.E.T.O.), Hematology
Section, University of Bari, P.zza G. Cesare, 11, 70124, Bari, Italy.

The BCR-ABL1 fusion on the Philadelphia (Ph) chromosome is a hallmark of chronic 
myeloid leukemia (CML). More than 95 % of BCR-ABL1 transcripts in CML are either 
e13a2 or e14a2 (major breakpoint cluster region or M-bcr), whereas rare BCR-ABL1 
transcripts are occasionally observed, accounting for less than 1 % of CML cases.
Among these, a very rare fusion transcript joining the first 6 exons of BCR to
exon 2 of ABL1 (e6a2) has been reported in various hematological malignancies
characterized by an aggressive clinical course. We report a new case of blast
crisis (BC) CML with an e6a2 fusion transcript characterized by many eosinophil
precursors with abnormal granules. Moreover, fluorescence in situ hybridization
analysis revealed genomic deletions of 1.3 megabases and 342 kilobases on der(9) 
of chromosome 9 and 22 sequences, respectively. The fusion transcript was
quantified at diagnosis and during follow-up using digital droplet polymerase
chain reaction (ddPCR) technology. The patient was treated with Dasatinib (140
mg/day), resulting in a 3-log reduction of the e6a2 transcript molecular burden
from the third month after treatment. In this twentieth e6a2 case, characterized 
by marked eosinophilic dysplasia, deletions on der(9), and responsive to tyrosine
kinase inhibitors therapy, we demonstrate that for molecular response monitoring 
of rare fusion transcripts associated with CML, ddPCR is a very useful
technology.

DOI: 10.1007/s00428-015-1802-z 
PMID: 26149409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. PLoS One. 2015 Jul 6;10(7):e0132038. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0132038.
eCollection 2015.

Maternal Supplementation with Oligofructose (10%) during Pregnancy and Lactation 
Leads to Increased Pro-Inflammatory Status of the 21-D-Old Offspring.

Mennitti LV(1), Oyama LM(2), de Oliveira JL(2), Hachul AC(2), Santamarina AB(2), 
de Santana AA(2), Okuda MH(2), Ribeiro EB(2), Oller do Nascimento CM(2), Pisani
LP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós Graduação Interdisciplinar em Ciências da Saúde, Universidade 
Federal de São Paulo, Santos, SP, Brazil. (2)Departamento Fisiologia, Disciplina 
de Fisiologia da Nutrição, Escola Paulista de Medicina, Universidade Federal de
São Paulo, Rua Botucatu, 862, 2° andar, Vila Clementino, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Biociências, Instituto de Saúde e Sociedade, Universidade
Federal de São Paulo, Rua Silva Jardim, 136, Térreo, Vila Mathias, Santos, SP,
Brazil.

Previously, we showed that oligofructose (10%) supplementation during pregnancy
and lactation increased endotoxemia in 21-d-old pups. The present study evaluated
the effect of 10% oligofructose diet supplementation during pregnancy and
lactation in the presence or absence of hydrogenated vegetable fat on the
pro-inflammatory status of 21-d-old offspring. On the first day of pregnancy,
female Wistar rats were divided into the following groups: control diet (C),
control diet supplemented with 10% oligofructose (CF), diet enriched with
hydrogenated vegetable fat (T) or diet enriched with hydrogenated vegetable fat
supplemented with 10% oligofructose (TF). Diets were maintained during pregnancy 
and lactation. Serum TNF-α (tumor necrosis factor alpha) was assessed using a
specific kit. Protein expression was determined by Western Blotting, and the
relative mRNA levels were analyzed by RT-PCR (real-time polymerase chain
reaction). We observed that 10% oligofructose supplementation during pregnancy
and lactation increased offspring's IL-6R (interleukin-6 receptor) mRNA levels in
the liver and RET (retroperitoneal white adipose tissue) and decreased ADIPOR2
(adiponectin receptor 2) and ADIPOR1 (adiponectin receptor 1) gene expression in 
liver and EDL (extensor digital longus)/ SOL (soleus) muscles of CF group.
Additionally, TF group presented with increased serum TNF-α, protein expression
of p-NFκBp65 (phosphorylated form of nuclear factor kappa B p65 subunit) in liver
and IL-6R mRNA levels in RET. These findings were accompanied by decreased levels
of ADIPOR1 mRNA in the EDL and SOL muscles of the TF group. In conclusion,
supplementing the dam's diet with 10% of oligofructose during pregnancy and
lactation, independent of hydrogenated vegetable fat addition, contributes to the
increased pro-inflammatory status of 21-d-old offspring, possibly through the
activation of the TLR4 (toll like receptor 4) pathway.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0132038 
PMCID: PMC4493056
PMID: 26147005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. J Mol Diagn. 2015 Sep;17(5):515-20. doi: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2015.04.002. Epub 2015 
Jul 2.

Droplet Digital PCR for Absolute Quantification of EML4-ALK Gene Rearrangement in
Lung Adenocarcinoma.

Wang Q(1), Yang X(1), He Y(2), Ma Q(1), Lin L(1), Fu P(1), Xiao H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Daping Hospital and Research Institute of Surgery,
Third Military Medical University, Chongqing, China. (2)Department of
Respiration, Daping Hospital and Research Institute of Surgery, Third Military
Medical University, Chongqing, China. (3)Department of Pathology, Daping Hospital
and Research Institute of Surgery, Third Military Medical University, Chongqing, 
China. Electronic address: dpbl_xhl@126.com.

Crizotinib treatment significantly prolongs progression-free survival, increases 
response rates, and improves the quality of life in patients with ALK-positive
non-small-cell lung cancer. Droplet Digital PCR (ddPCR), a recently developed
technique with high sensitivity and specificity, was used in this study to
evaluate the association between the abundance of ALK rearrangements and
crizotinib effectiveness. FFPE tissues were obtained from 103 consecutive
patients with lung adenocarcinoma. Fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) and
ddPCR were performed. The results revealed that 14 (13.6%) of the 103 patients
were positive by dual-color, break-apart FISH. Three variants (1, 2, and 3) of
the EML4-ALK gene rearrangements were detected. Thirteen of 14 ALK-positive cases
identified by FISH were confirmed by ddPCR (four with variant 1, two with variant
2, and seven with variant 3). The case missed by ddPCR was identified as
KIF5B-ALK gene rearrangement by PCR-based direct sequencing. Sixteen patients
were detected with low copy numbers of EML4-ALK gene rearrangement, which failed 
to meet the positive cutoff point of FISH. Two of them responded well to
crizotinib after unsuccessful chemotherapy. Our study indicates that ddPCR can be
used as a molecular analytical tool to accurately measure the EML4-ALK
rearrangement copy numbers in FFPE samples of lung adenocarcinoma patients.

Copyright © 2015 American Society for Investigative Pathology and the Association
for Molecular Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2015.04.002 
PMID: 26142544  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. BMC Genomics. 2015 Jul 4;16:497. doi: 10.1186/s12864-015-1713-z.

Genomic copy number variation in Mus musculus.

Locke ME(1), Milojevic M(2), Eitutis ST(3), Patel N(4), Wishart AE(5), Daley
M(6,)(7), Hill KA(8,)(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Computer Science, The University of Western Ontario, London, ON,
N6A 5B7, Canada. mlocke2@uwo.ca. (2)Department of Biology, The University of
Western Ontario, Biological and Geological Sciences Building 1151 Richmond St. N,
London, ON, N6A 5B7, Canada. mmiloje2@uwo.ca. (3)Department of Biology, The
University of Western Ontario, Biological and Geological Sciences Building 1151
Richmond St. N, London, ON, N6A 5B7, Canada. seitutis@uwo.ca. (4)Department of
Biology, The University of Western Ontario, Biological and Geological Sciences
Building 1151 Richmond St. N, London, ON, N6A 5B7, Canada. npatel68@uwo.ca.
(5)Department of Biology, The University of Western Ontario, Biological and
Geological Sciences Building 1151 Richmond St. N, London, ON, N6A 5B7, Canada.
awishar@alumni.uwo.ca. (6)Department of Computer Science, The University of
Western Ontario, London, ON, N6A 5B7, Canada. mark@daleylab.org. (7)Department of
Biology, The University of Western Ontario, Biological and Geological Sciences
Building 1151 Richmond St. N, London, ON, N6A 5B7, Canada. mark@daleylab.org.
(8)Department of Computer Science, The University of Western Ontario, London, ON,
N6A 5B7, Canada. khill22@uwo.ca. (9)Department of Biology, The University of
Western Ontario, Biological and Geological Sciences Building 1151 Richmond St. N,
London, ON, N6A 5B7, Canada. khill22@uwo.ca.

BACKGROUND: Copy number variation is an important dimension of genetic diversity 
and has implications in development and disease. As an important model organism, 
the mouse is a prime candidate for copy number variant (CNV) characterization,
but this has yet to be completed for a large sample size. Here we report CNV
analysis of publicly available, high-density microarray data files for 351 mouse 
tail samples, including 290 mice that had not been characterized for CNVs
previously.
RESULTS: We found 9634 putative autosomal CNVs across the samples affecting 6.87%
of the mouse reference genome. We find significant differences in the degree of
CNV uniqueness (single sample occurrence) and the nature of CNV-gene overlap
between wild-caught mice and classical laboratory strains. CNV-gene overlap was
associated with lipid metabolism, pheromone response and olfaction compared to
immunity, carbohydrate metabolism and amino-acid metabolism for wild-caught mice 
and classical laboratory strains, respectively. Using two subspecies of
wild-caught Mus musculus, we identified putative CNVs unique to those subspecies 
and show this diversity is better captured by wild-derived laboratory strains
than by the classical laboratory strains. A total of 9 genic copy number variable
regions (CNVRs) were selected for experimental confirmation by droplet digital
PCR (ddPCR).
CONCLUSION: The analysis we present is a comprehensive, genome-wide analysis of
CNVs in Mus musculus, which increases the number of known variants in the species
and will accelerate the identification of novel variants in future studies.

DOI: 10.1186/s12864-015-1713-z 
PMCID: PMC4490682
PMID: 26141061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2015 Sep;407(22):6731-9. doi: 10.1007/s00216-015-8836-6. Epub 
2015 Jul 3.

Development of certified matrix-based reference material of genetically modified 
rice event TT51-1 for real-time PCR quantification.

Jiang Y(1), Yang H, Quan S, Liu Y, Shen P, Yang L.

Author information: 
(1)National Center for the Molecular Characterization of Genetically Modified
Organisms, School of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong
University, Shanghai, 200240, China.

In 2009, the genetically modified (GM) rice event TT51-1 with an engineered
insect resistance trait became the first GM rice event to be granted
certification for safe production in China, and its derivative lines Bt 63 and
Huahui No.1 are expected to be commercialized soon. The development of certified 
reference material (CRM) for TT51-1 is necessary to monitor and inspect the
TT51-1 event and its derivates. In this work, we developed four matrix-based
TT51-1 rice CRMs (TT51-1a, TT51-1b, TT51-1c, and TT51-1d) with different TT51-1
mass fraction ratios by blending seed powders of homozygous TT51-1 and its
recipient cultivar Minghui 63. The between-bottle homogeneity and the
within-bottle homogeneity were tested, and good results were obtained. The
potential degradation during transportation and shelf life were evaluated, and
demonstrated an expiration period of at least 36 months. The characterization
values of the four TT51-1 CRMs based on the mass fraction ratio were
1000.000 ± 51.430 g/kg, 49.940 ± 4.620 g/kg, 9.990 ± 1.110 g/kg, and
4.990 ± 0.620 g/kg, respectively. The characterization values based on the copy
number ratio were certified by digital PCR analysis as 97.442 ± 5.253 %,
4.851 ± 0.486 %, 1.042 ± 0.135 %, and 0.556 ± 0.073 %, respectively. These
results suggested that the TT51-1 matrix-based CRMs developed are of high quality
and can be used as potential calibrators for TT51-1 GM rice inspection and
monitoring.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-015-8836-6 
PMID: 26138891  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. PLoS One. 2015 Jul 2;10(7):e0131745. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131745.
eCollection 2015.

The Porcine TSPY Gene Is Tricopy but Not a Copy Number Variant.

Quach AT(1), Oluwole O(1), King WA(1), Revay T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Ontario Veterinary College, University of
Guelph, Guelph, Ontario, Canada.

The testis-specific protein Y-encoded (TSPY) gene is situated on the mammalian
Y-chromosome and exhibits some remarkable biological characteristics. It has the 
highest known copy number (CN) of all protein coding genes in the human and
bovine genomes (up to 74 and 200, respectively) and also shows high individual
variability. Although the biological function of TSPY has not yet been
elucidated, its specific expression in the testis and several identified binding 
domains within the protein suggests roles in male reproduction. Here we describe 
the porcine TSPY, as a multicopy gene with three copies located on the short arm 
of the Y-chromosome with no variation at three exon loci among 20 animals of
normal reproductive health from four breeds of domestic pigs (Piétrain, Landrace,
Duroc and Yorkshire). To further investigate the speculation that porcine TSPY is
not a copy number variant, we have included five Low-fertility boars and five
boars with exceptional High-fertility records. Interestingly, there was no
difference between the High- and Low-fertile groups, but we detected slightly
lower TSPY CN at all three exons (2.56-2.85) in both groups, as compared to
normal animals, which could be attributed to technical variability or somatic
mosaicism. The results are based on both relative quantitative real-time PCR
(qPCR) and droplet digital PCR (ddPCR). Chromosomal localization of the porcine
TSPY was done using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with gene specific 
PCR probes.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131745 
PMCID: PMC4489747
PMID: 26133983  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. PLoS One. 2015 Jul 1;10(7):e0131280. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131280.
eCollection 2015.

Prevalence of the Prefoldin Subunit 5 Gene Deletion in Canine Mammary Tumors.

Hennecke S(1), Beck J(2), Bornemann-Kolatzki K(2), Neumann S(1), Murua Escobar
H(3), Nolte I(4), Hammer SC(3), Hewicker-Trautwein M(5), Junginger J(5), Kaup
FJ(6), Brenig B(1), Schütz E(7).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Veterinary Medicine, Georg-August-University Goettingen,
Goettingen, Germany. (2)Chronix Biomedical, Goettingen, Germany. (3)Small Animal 
Clinic, University of Veterinary Medicine Hannover, Hannover, Germany; Hematology
Oncology and Palliative Medicine, ClinicIII, University of Rostock, Rostock,
Germany. (4)Small Animal Clinic, University of Veterinary Medicine Hannover,
Hannover, Germany. (5)Department of Pathology, University of Veterinary Medicine 
Hannover, Hannover, Germany. (6)German Primate Center, Goettingen, Germany.
(7)Institute of Veterinary Medicine, Georg-August-University Goettingen,
Goettingen, Germany; Chronix Biomedical, Goettingen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: A somatic deletion at the proximal end of canine chromosome 27
(CFA27) was recently reported in 50% of malignant mammary tumors. This region
harbours the tumor suppressor gene prefoldin subunit 5 (PFDN5) and the deletion
correlated with a higher Ki-67 score. PFDN5 has been described to repress c-MYC
and is, therefore, a candidate tumor-suppressor and cancer-driver gene in canine 
mammary cancer. Aim of this study was to confirm the recurrent deletion in a
larger number of tumors.
METHODS: Droplet digital PCR for PFDN5 was performed in DNA from 102 malignant,
40 benign mammary tumors/dysplasias, 11 non-neoplastic mammary tissues and each
corresponding genomic DNA from leukocytes. The copy number of PFDN5 was
normalized to a reference amplicon on canine chromosome 32 (CFA32). Z-scores were
calculated, based on Gaussian distributed normalized PFDN5 copy numbers of the
leukocyte DNA. Z-scores ≤ -3.0 in tissue were considered as being indicative of
the PFDN5 deletion and called as such. The Ki-67 proliferation index was assessed
in a subset of 79 tissue samples by immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: The deletion was confirmed in 24% of all malignant tumors, detected in
only 7.5% of the benign tumors and was not present in any normal mammary tissue
sample. The subgroup of solid carcinomas (n = 9) showed the highest frequency of 
the deletion (67%) and those malignomas without microscopical high fraction of
benign tissue (n = 71) had a 32% frequency (p<0.01 vs. benign samples). The Ki-67
score was found to be significantly higher (p<0.05) in the PFDN5-deleted group
compared to malignant tumors without the deletion.
CONCLUSIONS: A somatic deletion of the PFDN5 gene is recurrently present in
canine mammary cancer, supporting a potential role in carcinogenesis. The
association of this deletion with higher Ki-67 indicates an increased
proliferation rate and thus a link to tumor aggressiveness can be hypothesized.
The confirmation of earlier results warrants further studies on PFDN5 as
cancer-driver gene.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0131280 
PMCID: PMC4489437
PMID: 26132936  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Front Plant Sci. 2015 Jun 15;6:439. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2015.00439. eCollection
2015.

An improved fruit transcriptome and the identification of the candidate genes
involved in fruit abscission induced by carbohydrate stress in litchi.

Li C(1), Wang Y(2), Huang X(3), Li J(4), Wang H(3), Li J(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory for Conservation and Utilization of Subtropical
Agro-Bioresources, China Litchi Research Center, South China Agricultural
University, Guangzhou China ; Physiological Laboratory for South China Fruits,
College of Horticulture, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou China.
(2)Physiological Laboratory for South China Fruits, College of Horticulture,
South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou China ; Beijing Genomics Institute
at Shenzhen, Shenzhen China. (3)Physiological Laboratory for South China Fruits, 
College of Horticulture, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou China.
(4)Beijing Genomics Institute at Shenzhen, Shenzhen China.

Massive young fruit abscission usually causes low and unstable yield in litchi
(Litchi chinensis Sonn.), an important fruit crop cultivated in tropical and
subtropical areas. However, the molecular mechanism of fruit drop has not been
fully characterized. This study aimed at identification of molecular components
involved in fruitlet abscission in litchi, for which reference genome is not
available at present. An improved de novo transcriptome assembly was firstly
achieved by using an optimized assembly software, Trinity. Using improved
transcriptome assembly as reference, digital transcript abundance (DTA) profiling
was performed to screen and identify candidate genes involved in fruit abscission
induced by girdling plus defoliation (GPD), a treatment significantly decreased
the soluble sugar contents causing carbohydrate stress to fruit. Our results
showed that the increasing fruit abscission rate after GPD treatment was
associated with higher ethylene production and lower glucose levels in fruit. A
total of 2,771 differentially expressed genes were identified as GPD-responsive
genes, 857 of which were defined by GO and KEGG enrichment analyses as the
candidate genes involved in fruit abscission process. These genes were involved
in diverse metabolic processes and pathways, including carbohydrate metabolism,
plant hormone synthesis, and signaling, transcription factor activity and cell
wall modification that were rapidly induced in the early stages (within 2 days
after treatment). qRT-PCR was used to explore the expression pattern of 15
selected candidate genes in the abscission zone, pericarp, and seed, which
confirmed the accuracy of our DTA data. More detailed information for different
functional categories was also analyzed. This study profiled the gene expression 
related to fruit abscission induced by carbohydrate stress at whole transcriptome
level and thus provided a better understanding of the regulatory mechanism of
young fruit abscission in litchi.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2015.00439 
PMCID: PMC4466451
PMID: 26124768 


708. J Biomed Mater Res A. 2015 Dec;103(12):3886-95. doi: 10.1002/jbm.a.35530. Epub
2015 Jul 16.

Dynamic compression combined with SOX-9 overexpression in rabbit adipose-derived 
mesenchymal stem cells cultured in a three-dimensional gradual porous PLGA
composite scaffold upregulates HIF-1α expression.

Chen X(1), Li J(1), Wang E(1), Zhao Q(2), Kong Z(1), Yuan X(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University,
Shenyang, 110004 Liaoning Province, China. (2)Department of Pediatric
Orthopedics, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University, Shenyang, 110004
Liaoning Province, China. (3)Department of Rehabilitation, Shengjing Hospital of 
China Medical University, Shenyang, 110004 Liaoning Province, China.

There is considerable interest in how the fate of adipose-derived stem cells is
determined. Physical stimuli play a crucial role in skeletogenesis and in
cartilage repair and regeneration. In the present study, we investigated the
comparative and interactive effects of dynamic compression and SRY-related
high-mobility group box gene-9 (SOX-9) on chondrogenesis of rabbit
adipose-derived stem cells in three-dimensional gradual porous PLGA
(polylactic-co-glycolic acid) composite scaffolds. Articular cartilage is
stratified into zones delineated by characteristic changes in cellular, matrix,
and nutritive components. As a consequence, biochemical and biomechanical
properties vary greatly between the different zones, giving the tissue its unique
structure and, thus, the ability to cope with extreme loading. The effects on
development of the cartilage were examined using a combination of computational
modeling to predict alterations in biophysical stimuli, detailed morphometric
analysis of 3D digital representations. In addition, early chondrogenic
differentiation was assessed via real-time PCR of mRNA expression levels for
bone- and cartilage-specific gene markers. Our findings define the important role
of dynamic compression combined with SOX-9 overexpression during in vitro
generation of tissue-engineering cartilage and suggest that a 3D gradual porous
PLGA composite scaffold may benefit articular cartilage tissue engineering in
cartilage regeneration for better force distribution.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jbm.a.35530 
PMID: 26123537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Anim Reprod Sci. 2015 Aug;159:131-40. doi: 10.1016/j.anireprosci.2015.06.007.
Epub 2015 Jun 11.

The comprehensive mechanisms underlying nonhierarchical follicular development in
geese (Anser cygnoides).

Liu H(1), Zhang W(1), Li Q(1), Liu J(1), Zhang T(1), Zhou T(1), Li L(1), Wang
J(2), Xu H(1), He H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Farm Animal Genetic Resources Exploration and Innovation Key Laboratory of
Sichuan Province, Sichuan Agricultural University, Chengdu, Sichuan 611130, PR
China. (2)Farm Animal Genetic Resources Exploration and Innovation Key Laboratory
of Sichuan Province, Sichuan Agricultural University, Chengdu, Sichuan 611130, PR
China. Electronic address: wjw2886166@163.com.

The laying performance of poultry primarily depends on the growth and development
of the ovarian follicles. Yet, little is known about the underlying mechanisms
responsible for nonhierarchical follicular development in avian species. The aim 
of the present study is identify genes that are differentially expressed during
nonhierarchical follicular development in geese by performing a transcriptome
screen. A sequencing depth of 13.9 and 14.9 million mapped tags was obtained in
pools of small white follicles (SWF) and small yellow follicles (SYF),
respectively, and a total of 160 differentially expressed genes were identified. 
The fold-changes of eight differentially expressed genes, identified using
qRT-PCR, were consistent with the Digital Gene Expression Profiling (DGE) data.
Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genome (KEGG) analyses
showed that lipid metabolism, steroid secretion, extracellular ligand reactions, 
enzyme activities, the cell cycle, ECM-receptor interactions and the
extracellular matrix are involved in follicular development. The majority of the 
newly identified genes could be considered to be new candidate genes with
potential roles in regulating follicular development. These results provide
useful information for future in-depth studies associated with nonhierarchical
follicular development in goose reproduction.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anireprosci.2015.06.007 
PMID: 26123507  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Biomark Res. 2015 Jun 6;3:12. doi: 10.1186/s40364-015-0037-0. eCollection 2015.

Diagnostic and prognostic microRNAs in the serum of breast cancer patients
measured by droplet digital PCR.

Mangolini A(1), Ferracin M(2), Zanzi MV(1), Saccenti E(1), Ebnaof SO(3), Poma
VV(1), Sanz JM(4), Passaro A(4), Pedriali M(1), Frassoldati A(5), Querzoli P(1), 
Sabbioni S(3), Carcoforo P(1), Hollingsworth A(6), Negrini M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Morphology, Surgery and Experimental Medicine, University of
Ferrara, Via Luigi Borsari, 46, 44121 Ferrara, Italy. (2)Department of
Morphology, Surgery and Experimental Medicine, University of Ferrara, Via Luigi
Borsari, 46, 44121 Ferrara, Italy ; Laboratory for Technologies of Advanced
Therapies (LTTA), University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy. (3)Department of Life
Sciences and Biotechnology, University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy. (4)Department 
of Medical Sciences, University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy. (5)Oncology Unit,
University Hospital of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy. (6)Mercy Cancer Resource
Center/Women's Center, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma USA.

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer circulating biomarkers include carcinoembryonic antigen
and carbohydrate antigen 15-3, which are used for patient follow-up. Since
sensitivity and specificity are low, novel and more useful biomarkers are needed.
The presence of stable circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) in serum or plasma
suggested a promising role for these tiny RNAs as cancer biomarkers. To acquire
an absolute concentration of circulating miRNAs and reduce the impact of
preanalytical and analytical variables, we used the droplet digital PCR (ddPCR)
technique.
RESULTS: We investigated a panel of five miRNAs in the sera of two independent
cohorts of breast cancer patients and disease-free controls. The study showed
that miR-148b-3p and miR-652-3p levels were significantly lower in the serum of
breast cancer patients than that in controls in both cohorts. For these two
miRNAs, the stratification of breast cancer patients versus controls was
confirmed by receiver operating characteristic curve analyses. In addition, we
showed that higher levels of serum miR-10b-5p were associated with
clinicobiological markers of poor prognosis.
CONCLUSIONS: The study revealed the usefulness of the ddPCR approach for the
quantification of circulating miRNAs. The use of the ddPCR quantitative approach 
revealed very good agreement between two independent cohorts in terms of
comparable absolute miRNA concentrations and consistent trends of dysregulation
in breast cancer patients versus controls. Overall, this study supports the use
of the quantitative ddPCR approach for monitoring the absolute levels of
diagnostic and prognostic tumor-specific circulating miRNAs.

DOI: 10.1186/s40364-015-0037-0 
PMCID: PMC4483205
PMID: 26120471 


711. Ann Oncol. 2015 Sep;26(9):1994-9. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdv272. Epub 2015 Jun 25.

Digital PCR quantification of MGMT methylation refines prediction of clinical
benefit from alkylating agents in glioblastoma and metastatic colorectal cancer.

Barault L(1), Amatu A(2), Bleeker FE(3), Moutinho C(4), Falcomatà C(1), Fiano
V(5), Cassingena A(2), Siravegna G(6), Milione M(7), Cassoni P(5), De Braud F(8),
Rudà R(9), Soffietti R(9), Venesio T(1), Bardelli A(10), Wesseling P(11), de Witt
Hamer P(12), Pietrantonio F(7), Siena S(2), Esteller M(13), Sartore-Bianchi A(2),
Di Nicolantonio F(14).

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Clinical Molecular Oncology, Candiolo Cancer Institute-FPO,
IRCCS, Candiolo (Turin). (2)Niguarda Cancer Center, Ospedale Niguarda Ca' Granda,
Milan, Italy. (3)Department of Clinical Genetics, Academic Medical Center,
University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. (4)Cancer Epigenetics and
Biology Program (PEBC), Bellvitge Biomedical Research Institute (IDIBELL),
Barcelona, Spain. (5)Department of Medical Sciences, University of Turin, Città
Della Salute e Della Scienza Hospital, Turin. (6)Experimental Clinical Molecular 
Oncology, Candiolo Cancer Institute-FPO, IRCCS, Candiolo (Turin) Department of
Oncology, University of Torino, Candiolo (Turin) FIRC Institute of Molecular
Oncology (IFOM), Milan. (7)Departments of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine.
(8)Medical Oncology, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Milan.
(9)Department of Neuro-Oncology, University of Turin and Città Della Salute e
Della Scienza Hospital, Turin, Italy. (10)Experimental Clinical Molecular
Oncology, Candiolo Cancer Institute-FPO, IRCCS, Candiolo (Turin) Department of
Oncology, University of Torino, Candiolo (Turin). (11)Department of Pathology, VU
University Medical Center, Amsterdam Department of Pathology, Radboud University 
Medical Center, Nijmegen. (12)Department Neurosurgery, Neurosurgical Center
Amsterdam, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. (13)Cancer
Epigenetics and Biology Program (PEBC), Bellvitge Biomedical Research Institute
(IDIBELL), Barcelona, Spain Department of Physiological Sciences II, School of
Medicine, University of Barcelona, Catalonia Institucio Catalana de Recerca i
Estudis Avançats (ICREA), Barcelona, Spain. (14)Experimental Clinical Molecular
Oncology, Candiolo Cancer Institute-FPO, IRCCS, Candiolo (Turin) Department of
Oncology, University of Torino, Candiolo (Turin)
federica.dinicolantonio@unito.it.

BACKGROUND: O(6)-methyl-guanine-methyl-transferase (MGMT) silencing by promoter
methylation may identify cancer patients responding to the alkylating agents
dacarbazine or temozolomide.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We evaluated the prognostic and predictive value of MGMT
methylation testing both in tumor and cell-free circulating DNA (cfDNA) from
plasma samples using an ultra-sensitive two-step digital PCR technique
(methyl-BEAMing). Results were compared with two established techniques,
methylation-specific PCR (MSP) and Bs-pyrosequencing.
RESULTS: Thresholds for MGMT methylated status for each technique were
established in a training set of 98 glioblastoma (GBM) patients. The prognostic
and the predictive value of MGMT methylated status was validated in a second
cohort of 66 GBM patients treated with temozolomide in which methyl-BEAMing
displayed a better specificity than the other techniques. Cutoff values of MGMT
methylation specific for metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) tissue samples were 
established in a cohort of 60 patients treated with dacarbazine. In mCRC, both
quantitative assays methyl-BEAMing and Bs-pyrosequencing outperformed MSP,
providing better prediction of treatment response and improvement in
progression-free survival (PFS) (P < 0.001). Ability of methyl-BEAMing to
identify responding patients was validated in a cohort of 23 mCRC patients
treated with temozolomide and preselected for MGMT methylated status according to
MSP. In mCRC patients treated with dacarbazine, exploratory analysis of cfDNA by 
methyl-BEAMing showed that MGMT methylation was associated with better response
and improved median PFS (P = 0.008).
CONCLUSIONS: Methyl-BEAMing showed high reproducibility, specificity and
sensitivity and was applicable to formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissues and
cfDNA. This study supports the quantitative assessment of MGMT methylation for
clinical purposes since it could refine prediction of response to alkylating
agents.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European
Society for Medical Oncology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdv272 
PMID: 26113646  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2015 Jul;152(2):313-21. doi: 10.1007/s10549-015-3468-2. 
Epub 2015 Jun 23.

Engineering targeted chromosomal amplifications in human breast epithelial cells.

Springer S(1), Yi KH, Park J, Rajpurohit A, Price AJ, Lauring J.

Author information: 
(1)The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, The Johns Hopkins University,
CRB 1 Room 146, 1650 Orleans Street, Baltimore, MD, 21287, USA.

Chromosomal amplifications are among the most common genetic alterations found in
human cancers. However, experimental systems to study the processes that lead to 
specific, recurrent amplification events in human cancers are lacking. Moreover, 
some common amplifications, such as that at 8p11-12 in breast cancer, harbor
multiple driver oncogenes, which are poorly modeled by conventional
overexpression approaches. We sought to develop an experimental system to model
recurrent chromosomal amplification events in human cell lines. Our strategy is
to use homologous-recombination-mediated gene targeting to deliver a dominantly
selectable, amplifiable marker to a specified chromosomal location. We used
adeno-associated virus vectors to target human MCF-7 breast cancer cells at the
ZNF703 locus, in the recurrent 8p11-12 amplicon, using the E. coli inosine
monophosphate dehydrogenase (IMPDH) enzyme as a marker. We applied selective
pressure using IMPDH inhibitors. Surviving clones were found to have increased
copy number of ZNF703 (average 2.5-fold increase) by droplet digital PCR and
FISH. Genome-wide array comparative genomic hybridization confirmed that
amplifications had occurred on the short arm of chromosome 8, without changes on 
8q or other chromosomes. Patterns of amplification were variable and similar to
those seen in primary human breast cancers, including "sawtooth" patterns, distal
copy number loss, and large continuous regions of copy number gain. This system
will allow study of the cis- and trans-acting factors that are permissive for
chromosomal amplification and provide a model to analyze oncogene cooperativity
in amplifications harboring multiple candidate driver genes.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-015-3468-2 
PMCID: PMC4491111
PMID: 26099605  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Nat Genet. 2015 Aug;47(8):921-5. doi: 10.1038/ng.3340. Epub 2015 Jun 22.

Structural forms of the human amylase locus and their relationships to SNPs,
haplotypes and obesity.

Usher CL(1), Handsaker RE(2), Esko T(3), Tuke MA(4), Weedon MN(4), Hastie AR(5), 
Cao H(5), Moon JE(6), Kashin S(7), Fuchsberger C(8), Metspalu A(9), Pato CN(10), 
Pato MT(10), McCarthy MI(11), Boehnke M(8), Altshuler DM(12), Frayling TM(4),
Hirschhorn JN(6), McCarroll SA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)1] Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
[2] Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad Institute of MIT and
Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA. [3] Stanley Center for Psychiatric
Research, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
(3)1] Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
[2] Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad Institute of MIT and
Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA. [3] Center for Basic and Translational
Obesity Research, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. [4]
Division of Endocrinology, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts,
USA. [5] Estonian Genome Center, University of Tartu, Tartu, Estonia. (4)Genetics
of Complex Traits, University of Exeter Medical School, University of Exeter,
Exeter, UK. (5)BioNano Genomics, San Diego, California, USA. (6)1] Department of 
Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. [2] Program in
Medical and Population Genetics, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge,
Massachusetts, USA. [3] Center for Basic and Translational Obesity Research,
Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. [4] Division of
Endocrinology, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. (7)1]
Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard,
Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA. [2] Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad
Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA. (8)1] Department of 
Biostatistics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA. [2] Center for
Statistical Genetics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA. (9)1]
Estonian Genome Center, University of Tartu, Tartu, Estonia. [2] Institute of
Molecular and Cell Biology, University of Tartu, Tartu, Estonia. (10)Department
of Psychiatry and the Behavioral Sciences, University of Southern California, Los
Angeles, California, USA. (11)1] Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics,
University of Oxford, Oxford, UK. [2] Oxford Centre for Diabetes, Endocrinology
and Metabolism, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK. [3] Oxford National Institute
for Health Research (NIHR) Biomedical Research Centre, Churchill Hospital,
Headington, Oxford, UK. (12)1] Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts, USA. [2] Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad
Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA. [3] Department of
Molecular Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Genet. 2015 Aug;47(8):852-3.

Hundreds of genes reside in structurally complex, poorly understood regions of
the human genome. One such region contains the three amylase genes (AMY2B, AMY2A 
and AMY1) responsible for digesting starch into sugar. Copy number of AMY1 is
reported to be the largest genomic influence on obesity, although genome-wide
association studies for obesity have found this locus unremarkable. Using
whole-genome sequence analysis, droplet digital PCR and genome mapping, we
identified eight common structural haplotypes of the amylase locus that suggest
its mutational history. We found that the AMY1 copy number in an individual's
genome is generally even (rather than odd) and partially correlates with nearby
SNPs, which do not associate with body mass index (BMI). We measured amylase gene
copy number in 1,000 obese or lean Estonians and in 2 other cohorts totaling
∼3,500 individuals. We had 99% power to detect the lower bound of the reported
effects on BMI, yet found no association.

DOI: 10.1038/ng.3340 
PMCID: PMC4712930
PMID: 26098870  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Electromagn Biol Med. 2015;34(2):106-12. doi: 10.3109/15368378.2015.1036072.

Transduction of DNA information through water and electromagnetic waves.

Montagnier L(1), Del Giudice E, Aïssa J, Lavallee C, Motschwiller S, Capolupo A, 
Polcari A, Romano P, Tedeschi A, Vitiello G.

Author information: 
(1)World Foundation for AIDS Research and Prevention (UNESCO) , Paris , France .

The experimental conditions by which electromagnetic signals (EMS) of low
frequency can be emitted by diluted aqueous solutions of some bacterial and viral
DNAs are described. That the recorded EMS and nanostructures induced in water
carry the DNA information (sequence) is shown by retrieval of that same DNA by
classical PCR amplification using the TAQ polymerase, including both primers and 
nucleotides. Moreover, such a transduction process has also been observed in
living human cells exposed to EMS irradiation. These experiments suggest that
coherent long-range molecular interaction must be present in water to observe the
above-mentioned features. The quantum field theory analysis of the phenomenon is 
presented in this article.

DOI: 10.3109/15368378.2015.1036072 
PMID: 26098521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Sci Rep. 2015 Jun 22;5:11198. doi: 10.1038/srep11198.

Monitoring response to therapy in melanoma by quantifying circulating tumour DNA 
with droplet digital PCR for BRAF and NRAS mutations.

Tsao SC(1), Weiss J(2), Hudson C(3), Christophi C(4), Cebon J(5), Behren A(5),
Dobrovic A(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Olivia Newton-John Cancer Research Institute, Heidelberg, Victoria,
Australia [2] Department of Surgery, University of Melbourne, Austin Health.
Heidelberg, Victoria, Australia. (2)Olivia Newton-John Cancer Research Institute,
Heidelberg, Victoria, Australia. (3)1] Olivia Newton-John Cancer Research
Institute, Heidelberg, Victoria, Australia [2] School of Cancer Medicine, La
Trobe University, Bundoora, Victoria, Australia. (4)Department of Surgery,
University of Melbourne, Austin Health. Heidelberg, Victoria, Australia. (5)1]
Olivia Newton-John Cancer Research Institute, Heidelberg, Victoria, Australia [2]
Department of Pathology, University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia 
[3] School of Cancer Medicine, La Trobe University, Bundoora, Victoria,
Australia.

We assessed the utility of droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) to evaluate the potential 
of using circulating tumour DNA (ctDNA) as a post therapy monitoring tool in
melanoma by comparing it to serum LDH levels and RECIST scores. ddPCR was shown
to be reliable in distinguishing mutant from wild type alleles with no false
positives. Subsequently, we quantified ctDNA ((V600E)BRAF,(V600K)BRAF or
(Q61H)NRAS) in 6 stage IV melanoma patients across several time points during
their treatment course. All tested patients had detectable ctDNA, which exhibited
dynamic changes corresponding to the changes in their disease status. The ctDNA
levels fell upon treatment response and rose with detectable disease progression.
In our group of patients, ctDNA was more consistent and informative than LDH as a
blood-based biomarker. In addition, BRAF mutant ctDNA as detected by ddPCR could 
be used diagnostically where the tumour block was unavailable. In conclusion,
this study demonstrates the applicability of using ddPCR to detect and quantify
ctDNA in the plasma of melanoma patients.

DOI: 10.1038/srep11198 
PMCID: PMC4476039
PMID: 26095797  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Vet J. 2015 Sep;205(3):417-20. doi: 10.1016/j.tvjl.2015.05.023. Epub 2015 Jun 1.

Treponema DNA in bovine 'non-healing' versus common sole ulcers and white line
disease.

Sykora S(1), Kofler J(2), Glonegger-Reichert J(2), Dietrich J(2), Auersperg G(1),
Brandt S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Research Group Oncology, Equine Clinic, Department of Companion Animals and
Horses, University of Veterinary Medicine, Veterinaerplatz 1, Vienna A-1210,
Austria. (2)Clinic for Ruminants, Department of Farm Animals and Veterinary
Public Health, University of Veterinary Medicine, Veterinaerplatz 1, Vienna
A-1210, Austria. (3)Research Group Oncology, Equine Clinic, Department of
Companion Animals and Horses, University of Veterinary Medicine, Veterinaerplatz 
1, Vienna A-1210, Austria. Electronic address: sabine.brandt@vetmeduni.ac.at.

Bovine digital dermatitis (BDD)-associated 'non-healing' white line disease
(nhWLD) and 'non-healing' sole ulcers (nhSU) are increasingly encountered in
cattle. Using established PCR protocols, 42 nhWLD/nhSU, 25 BDD and 15 common WLD 
DNA isolates were screened for the presence of Treponema DNA. Obtained amplicons 
were identified by gel electrophoresis and sequencing. Independent from their
source, Treponema DNA was isolated from all lesions, but the lesion type varied
with the detected Treponema phylotypes. Whilst Treponema pedis was omnipresent,
T. medium was almost exclusively identified in BDD and associated nhWLD/nhSU
lesions when compared to common WLD. This observation was confirmed by specific
T. medium PCR scoring positive for all BDD and nhWLD/nhSU lesions, but for only
1/15 (6.7%) common WLD lesions. It is suggested that T. medium may have an active
role in the pathogenesis of nhWLD/nhSU but further work is needed to verify this 
concept.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tvjl.2015.05.023 
PMID: 26093913  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Leukemia. 2015 Dec;29(12):2421-3. doi: 10.1038/leu.2015.151. Epub 2015 Jun 19.

Direct comparison of quantitative digital PCR and 2-hydroxyglutarate enantiomeric
ratio for IDH mutant allele frequency assessment in myeloid malignancy.

Wiseman DH(1), Struys EA(2), Wilks DP(3), Clark CI(4), Dennis MW(5), Jansen
EE(2), Salomons GS(2), Somervaille TC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Leukaemia Biology Laboratory, Cancer Research UK Manchester Institute, The
University of Manchester, Manchester, UK. (2)Metabolic Laboratory, Department of 
Clinical Chemistry, Free University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Biobank, Manchester Cancer Research Centre, Cancer Research UK Manchester
Institute, The University of Manchester, Manchester, UK. (4)Molecular Biology
Core Facility, Cancer Research UK Manchester Institute, The University of
Manchester, Manchester, UK. (5)Department of Haematology, The Christie NHS
Foundation Trust, Manchester, UK.

DOI: 10.1038/leu.2015.151 
PMID: 26088953  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Bio Protoc. 2015 Jun 5;5(11). pii: e1492.

Quantification of Total and 2-LTR (Long terminal repeat) HIV DNA, HIV RNA and
Herpesvirus DNA in PBMCs.

Massanella M(1), Gianella S(1), Lada SM(1), Richman DD(2), Strain MC(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of California San Diego, La Jolla, USA. (2)University of California
San Diego, La Jolla, USA; Veterans Affairs San Diego Healthcare System, La Jolla,
USA.

Almost all individuals infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) are also 
infected with cytomegalovirus (CMV) and Epstein Barr virus (EBV). The aims of our
studies have included characterizing and measuring the latent HIV reservoir and
understanding the association between asymptomatic replication of CMV (and other 
herpesvirus, including EBV) and this HIV reservoir (Gianella et al., 2014). This 
protocol was designed to simultaneously co-extract DNA and RNA from the same
peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) aliquot and quantify HIV, CMV and EBV
DNA, as well as HIV RNA using droplet digital PCR (ddPCR). For collection and
processing of male genital secretions and quantification of HIV RNA and DNA from 
seven human herpesviruses from seminal plasma, refer to protocol "Quantification 
of HIV RNA and Human Herpesvirus DNA in Seminal Plasma" (Vargas-Meneses et al.,
2015).


PMCID: PMC4962884
PMID: 27478862 


719. Int J Lab Hematol. 2015 Oct;37(5):690-8. doi: 10.1111/ijlh.12388. Epub 2015 Jun
3.

Detection of chromosomal translocations in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded
(FFPE) leukemic specimens by digital expression profiling.

Liew M(1), Mao R(1,)(2), Wittwer CT(1,)(2), Salama ME(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)ARUP Institute for Clinical and Experimental Pathology, Salt Lake City, UT,
USA. (2)Department of Pathology, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake
City, UT, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Detection of chromosomal translocations in formalin-fixed
paraffin-embedded (FFPE) leukemic samples is important for confirmation of
histopathological findings, classification, prognostication, and therapeutic
decisions. Herein, we aim to determine whether digital expression profiling could
detect chromosomal translocations in FFPE leukemic samples identified by RT-PCR, 
FISH, and/or karyotyping.
METHODS: RNA was extracted from 28 FFPE bone marrow specimens from 19 patients
diagnosed with leukemia. Eight patients were translocation t(9;22) positive,
three inv(16)/t(16/16) positive, five translocation t(15;17) positive, and one
translocation t(8;21) positive. Two patients (four specimens) were normal. The
extracted RNA was hybridized to DNA reporter probes overnight at 65 °C, followed 
by purification of the labeled translocations. Six hundred fields of view were
counted to enumerate the number of translocations.
RESULTS: Digital expression profiling had 100% concordance with RT-PCR, FISH, or 
karyotyping analysis in the two normal individuals, eight translocation t(9;22)
samples, five translocation t(15;17) samples, and one translocation t(8;21)
sample. None of the inv(16) positive samples were detected. Digital expression
profiling detected translocations with 0.014 p190 allelic burden.
CONCLUSION: Digital expression profiling can be used to measure translocation
t(9;22), t(15;17), and t(8;21) in FFPE samples and is useful when a confirmatory 
test from a FFPE sample is necessary.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ijlh.12388 
PMID: 26037935  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Oncotarget. 2015 Jun 10;6(16):14545-55.

Absolute quantification of cell-free microRNAs in cancer patients.

Ferracin M(1,)(2), Lupini L(1), Salamon I(1), Saccenti E(3,)(4), Zanzi MV(5),
Rocchi A(6), Da Ros L(6), Zagatti B(1,)(2), Musa G(1), Bassi C(1), Mangolini
A(1), Cavallesco G(1,)(7), Frassoldati A(6), Volpato S(4), Carcoforo P(1,)(5),
Hollingsworth AB(8), Negrini M(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Morphology, Surgery and Experimental Medicine, University of
Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy. (2)Laboratory for Technologies of Advanced Therapies
(LTTA), University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy. (3)Section of Hematology, S. Anna 
University Hospital, Ferrara, Italy. (4)Department of Medical Sciences,
University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy. (5)Breast Unit, S. Anna University
Hospital, Ferrara, Italy. (6)Clinical Oncology Unit, S. Anna University Hospital,
Ferrara, Italy. (7)Section of General and Thoracic Surgery, S. Anna University
Hospital, Ferrara, Italy. (8)Department of Surgery, Mercy Hospital - OKC,
Oklahoma City, OK, USA.

The hypothesis to use microRNAs (miRNAs) circulating in the blood as cancer
biomarkers was formulated some years ago based on promising initial results.
After some exciting discoveries, however, it became evident that the accurate
quantification of cell-free miRNAs was more challenging than expected.
Difficulties were linked to the strong impact that many, if not all, pre- and
post- analytical variables have on the final results. In this study, we used
currently available high-throughput technologies to identify miRNAs present in
plasma and serum of patients with breast, colorectal, lung, thyroid and melanoma 
tumors, and healthy controls. Then, we assessed the absolute level of nine
different miRNAs (miR-320a, miR-21-5p, miR-378a-3p, miR-181a-5p, miR-3156-5p,
miR-2110, miR-125a-5p, miR-425-5p, miR-766-3p) in 207 samples from healthy
controls and cancer patients using droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) technology. We
identified miRNAs specifically modulated in one or more cancer types, according
to tissue source. The significant reduction of miR-181a-5p levels in breast
cancer patients serum was further validated using two independent cohorts, one
from Italy (n = 70) and one from US (n = 90), with AUC 0.66 and 0.73
respectively. This study finally powers the use of cell-free miRNAs as cancer
biomarkers and propose miR-181a-5p as a diagnostic breast cancer biomarker.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.3859 
PMCID: PMC4546486
PMID: 26036630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


721. Biomed Microdevices. 2015;17(3):9970.

A nanoliter self-priming compartmentalization chip for point-of-care digital PCR 
analysis.

Song Q, Gao Y, Zhu Q, Tian Q, Yu B, Song B, Xu Y, Yuan M, Ma C, Jin W, Zhang T,
Mu Y, Jin Q.

A nanoliter self-priming compartmentalization (SPC) microfluidic chip suited for 
the digital polymerase chain reaction (dPCR) analysis in point-of-care testing
(POCT) has been developed. This dPCR chip is fabricated of polydimethylsiloxane
(PDMS). After the dPCR chip is evacuated, there will be a negative pressure
environment in the chip because of the gas solubility of PDMS. The negative
pressure environment can provide a self-priming power so that the sample
solutions can be sucked into each reaction chamber sequentially. The whole
sampling process requires no external power and is valve-free. Channels that
contain water are designed around each sample panel to prevent the solvent
(water) from evaporating during dPCR process. A glass coverslip is also used as a
waterproof layer, which is more convenient and more efficient than other
waterproof methods seen in literature. This dPCR chip allows three samples to be 
amplified at the same time. Each sample is distributed into 1040 reaction
chambers, and each chamber is only 2.08 nL. Human β-actin DNA solutions of known 
concentrations are used as the templates for the dPCR analyses to verify the
sensitivity and accuracy of the method. Template DNA solutions diluted to
concentrations of 300, 100 and 10 copies/μL are tested and shown that this
simple, portable and self-priming dPCR chip can be used at any clinic as a real
POCT technique.


PMID: 26029750  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2015 Aug;81(15):5203-11. doi: 10.1128/AEM.00931-15. Epub 
2015 May 29.

Comparison of Quantitative PCR and Droplet Digital PCR Multiplex Assays for Two
Genera of Bloom-Forming Cyanobacteria, Cylindrospermopsis and Microcystis.

Te SH(1), Chen EY(1), Gin KY(2).

Author information: 
(1)NUS Environmental Research Institute, Department of Civil and Environmental
Engineering, National University of Singapore, Singapore. (2)NUS Environmental
Research Institute, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, National
University of Singapore, Singapore ceeginyh@nus.edu.sg.

The increasing occurrence of harmful cyanobacterial blooms, often linked to
deteriorated water quality and adverse public health effects, has become a
worldwide concern in recent decades. The use of molecular techniques such as
real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR) has become increasingly popular in the
detection and monitoring of harmful cyanobacterial species. Multiplex qPCR assays
that quantify several toxigenic cyanobacterial species have been established
previously; however, there is no molecular assay that detects several
bloom-forming species simultaneously. Microcystis and Cylindrospermopsis are the 
two most commonly found genera and are known to be able to produce microcystin
and cylindrospermopsin hepatotoxins. In this study, we designed primers and
probes which enable quantification of these genera based on the RNA polymerase C1
gene for Cylindrospermopsis species and the c-phycocyanin beta subunit-like gene 
for Microcystis species. Duplex assays were developed for two molecular
techniques-qPCR and droplet digital PCR (ddPCR). After optimization, both qPCR
and ddPCR assays have high linearity and quantitative correlations for standards.
Comparisons of the two techniques showed that qPCR has higher sensitivity, a
wider linear dynamic range, and shorter analysis time and that it was more
cost-effective, making it a suitable method for initial screening. However, the
ddPCR approach has lower variability and was able to handle the PCR inhibition
and competitive effects found in duplex assays, thus providing more precise and
accurate analysis for bloom samples.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.00931-15 
PMCID: PMC4495218
PMID: 26025892  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Biomed Microdevices. 2015;17(3):64. doi: 10.1007/s10544-015-9970-9.

A nanoliter self-priming compartmentalization chip for point-of-care digital PCR 
analysis.

Song Q(1), Gao Y, Zhu Q, Tian Q, Yu B, Song B, Xu Y, Yuan M, Ma C, Jin W, Zhang
T, Mu Y, Jin Q.

Author information: 
(1)Research Center for Analytical Instrumentation, Institute of Cyber-Systems and
Control, State Key Laboratory of Industrial Control Technology, Zhejiang
University, Hangzhou, People's Republic of China.

A nanoliter self-priming compartmentalization (SPC) microfluidic chip suited for 
the digital polymerase chain reaction (dPCR) analysis in point-of-care testing
(POCT) has been developed. This dPCR chip is fabricated of polydimethylsiloxane
(PDMS). After the dPCR chip is evacuated, there will be a negative pressure
environment in the chip because of the gas solubility of PDMS. The negative
pressure environment can provide a self-priming power so that the sample
solutions can be sucked into each reaction chamber sequentially. The whole
sampling process requires no external power and is valve-free. Channels that
contain water are designed around each sample panel to prevent the solvent
(water) from evaporating during dPCR process. A glass coverslip is also used as a
waterproof layer, which is more convenient and more efficient than other
waterproof methods seen in literature. This dPCR chip allows three samples to be 
amplified at the same time. Each sample is distributed into 1040 reaction
chambers, and each chamber is only 2.08 nL. Human β-actin DNA solutions of known 
concentrations are used as the templates for the dPCR analyses to verify the
sensitivity and accuracy of the method. Template DNA solutions diluted to
concentrations of 300, 100 and 10 copies/μL are tested and shown that this
simple, portable and self-priming dPCR chip can be used at any clinic as a real
POCT technique.

DOI: 10.1007/s10544-015-9970-9 
PMID: 26022215  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2015 Jul;407(19):5827-34. doi: 10.1007/s00216-015-8773-4. Epub
2015 May 29.

ddpcRquant: threshold determination for single channel droplet digital PCR
experiments.

Trypsteen W(1), Vynck M, De Neve J, Bonczkowski P, Kiselinova M, Malatinkova E,
Vervisch K, Thas O, Vandekerckhove L, De Spiegelaere W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, HIV Translational Research Unit, Ghent
University and University Hospital, Depintelaan 185, De Pintepark Building, 9000,
Ghent, Belgium.

Digital PCR is rapidly gaining interest in the field of molecular biology for
absolute quantification of nucleic acids. However, the first generation of
platforms still needs careful validation and requires a specific methodology for 
data analysis to distinguish negative from positive signals by defining a
threshold value. The currently described methods to assess droplet digital PCR
(ddPCR) are based on an underlying assumption that the fluorescent signal of
droplets is normally distributed. We show that this normality assumption does not
likely hold true for most ddPCR runs, resulting in an erroneous threshold. We
suggest a methodology that does not make any assumptions about the distribution
of the fluorescence readouts. A threshold is estimated by modelling the extreme
values in the negative droplet population using extreme value theory.
Furthermore, the method takes shifts in baseline fluorescence between samples
into account. An R implementation of our method is available, allowing automated 
threshold determination for absolute ddPCR quantification using a single
fluorescent reporter.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-015-8773-4 
PMID: 26022094  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Arthritis Rheumatol. 2015 Sep;67(9):2415-26. doi: 10.1002/art.39219.

The Role of MicroRNAs and Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 in
Proliferative Lupus Nephritis.

Costa-Reis P(1), Russo PA(2), Zhang Z(3), Colonna L(3), Maurer K(3), Gallucci
S(4), Schulz SW(5), Kiani AN(6), Petri M(6), Sullivan KE(2).

Author information: 
(1)The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia and University of Pennsylvania
Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, and University of Lisbon, Lisbon,
Portugal. (2)The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia and University of
Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia. (3)The Children's
Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. (4)The Children's Hospital 
of Philadelphia and Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. (5)Hospital of
the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. (6)Johns Hopkins University School 
of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.

OBJECTIVE: To understand the roles of microRNAs (miRNAs) in proliferative lupus
nephritis (LN).
METHODS: A high-throughput analysis of the miRNA pattern of the kidneys of LN
patients and controls was performed by molecular digital detection. Urinary
miRNAs were measured by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain
reaction (qRT-PCR). Target gene expression in human mesangial cells was evaluated
by arrays and qRT-PCR. Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER-2) was
analyzed by immunohistochemistry in kidney samples from LN patients and in a
murine model of lupus. Urinary levels of HER-2, monocyte chemotactic protein 1
(MCP-1), and vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM-1) were measured by
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
RESULTS: Levels of the miRNAs miR-26a and miR-30b were decreased in the kidneys
and urine of LN patients. In vitro these miRNAs controlled mesangial cell
proliferation, and their expression was regulated by HER-2. HER-2 was
overexpressed in lupus-prone NZM2410 mice and in the kidneys of patients with LN,
but not in other mesangioproliferative glomerulonephritides. HER-2 was found to
be up-regulated by interferon-α and interferon regulatory factor 1. Urinary HER-2
was increased in LN and reflected disease activity, and its levels correlated
with those of 2 other recognized LN biomarkers, MCP-1 and VCAM-1.
CONCLUSION: The kidney miRNA pattern is broadly altered in LN, which contributes 
to uncontrolled cell proliferation. Levels of the miRNAs miR-26a and miR-30b are 
decreased in the kidneys and urine of LN patients, and they directly regulate the
cell cycle in mesangial cells. The levels of these miRNAs are controlled by
HER-2, which is overexpressed in NZM2410 mice and in the kidneys and urine of LN 
patients. HER-2, miR-26a, and miR-30b are thus potential LN biomarkers, and
blocking HER-2 may be a promising new strategy to decrease cell proliferation and
damage in this disease.

© 2015, American College of Rheumatology.

DOI: 10.1002/art.39219 
PMID: 26016809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Oncotarget. 2015 Aug 21;6(24):20466-73.

Highly sensitive and quantitative evaluation of the EGFR T790M mutation by
nanofluidic digital PCR.

Iwama E(1,)(2), Takayama K(2), Harada T(2), Okamoto I(3), Ookubo F(4), Kishimoto 
J(5), Baba E(1), Oda Y(6), Nakanishi Y(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Medical Sciences, Department of Comprehensive Clinical Oncology,
Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan. (2)Research Institute for Diseases of the
Chest, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan.
(3)Center for Clinical and Translational Research, Kyushu University Hospital,
Fukuoka, Japan. (4)Division of Diagnostic Pathology, Kyushu University Hospital, 
Fukuoka, Japan. (5)Department of Research and Development of Next Generation
Medicine, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan. (6)Department of Anatomic Pathology,
Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan.

The mutation of T790M in EGFR is a major mechanism of resistance to treatment
with EGFR-TKIs. Only qualitative detection (presence or absence) of T790M has
been described to date, however. Digital PCR (dPCR) analysis has recently been
applied to the quantitative detection of target molecules in cancer with high
sensitivity. In the present study, 25 tumor samples (13 obtained before and 12
after EGFR-TKI treatment) from 18 NSCLC patients with activating EGFR mutations
were evaluated for T790M with dPCR. The ratio of the number of T790M alleles to
that of activating mutation alleles (T/A) was determined. dPCR detected T790M in 
all 25 samples. Although T790M was present in all pre-TKI samples from 13
patients, 10 of these patients had a low T/A ratio and manifested substantial
tumor shrinkage during treatment with EGFR-TKIs. In six of seven patients for
whom both pre- and post-TKI samples were available, the T/A ratio increased
markedly during EGFR-TKI treatment. Highly sensitive dPCR thus detected T790M in 
all NSCLC patients harboring activating EGFR mutations whether or not they had
received EGFR-TKI treatment. Not only highly sensitive but also quantitative
detection of T790M is important for evaluation of the contribution of T790M to
EGFR-TKI resistance.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.4058 
PMCID: PMC4653018
PMID: 26015401  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Pest Manag Sci. 2016 Apr;72(4):747-53. doi: 10.1002/ps.4048. Epub 2015 Jun 26.

Molecular methods (digital PCR and real-time PCR) for the quantification of low
copy DNA of Phytophthora nicotianae in environmental samples.

Blaya J(1), Lloret E(1), Santísima-Trinidad AB(1), Ros M(1), Pascual JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Soil and Water Conservation and Organic Wastes Management,
Centro de Edafología y Biología Aplicada del Segura (CEBAS-CSIC), Espinardo,
Murcia, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Currently, real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) is the
technique most often used to quantify pathogen presence. Digital PCR (dPCR) is a 
new technique with the potential to have a substantial impact on plant pathology 
research owing to its reproducibility, sensitivity and low susceptibility to
inhibitors. In this study, we evaluated the feasibility of using dPCR and qPCR to
quantify Phytophthora nicotianae in several background matrices, including host
tissues (stems and roots) and soil samples.
RESULTS: In spite of the low dynamic range of dPCR (3 logs compared with 7 logs
for qPCR), this technique proved to have very high precision applicable at very
low copy numbers. The dPCR was able to detect accurately the pathogen in all type
of samples in a broad concentration range. Moreover, dPCR seems to be less
susceptible to inhibitors than qPCR in plant samples. Linear regression analysis 
showed a high correlation between the results obtained with the two techniques in
soil, stem and root samples, with R(2) = 0.873, 0.999 and 0.995 respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that dPCR is a promising alternative for
quantifying soil-borne pathogens in environmental samples, even in early stages
of the disease.

© 2015 Society of Chemical Industry.

DOI: 10.1002/ps.4048 
PMID: 26012497  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Int J Cancer. 2015 Nov 15;137(10):2513-9. doi: 10.1002/ijc.29612. Epub 2015 Jun
11.

Short report: Monitoring ESR1 mutations by circulating tumor DNA in aromatase
inhibitor resistant metastatic breast cancer.

Sefrioui D(1,)(2,)(3), Perdrix A(3,)(4), Sarafan-Vasseur N(1,)(3), Dolfus
C(3,)(5), Dujon A(6), Picquenot JM(4,)(7), Delacour J(1,)(3), Cornic M(4), Bohers
E(7), Leheurteur M(8), Rigal O(8), Tennevet I(8), Thery JC(3,)(8), Alexandru
C(8), Guillemet C(8), Moldovan C(8), Veyret C(8), Frebourg T(1), Di Fiore
F(1,)(2,)(3,)(8), Clatot F(3,)(7,)(8).

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U1079, Rouen, France. (2)Department of Gastroenterology, Rouen
University Hospital, Rouen, France. (3)Equipe De Recherche En Oncologie (IRON),
Rouen University Hospital and Centre Henri Becquerel, Rouen, France.
(4)Department of Bio-Pathology, Centre Henri Becquerel, Rouen, France.
(5)Department of Pathology, Rouen University Hospital, Rouen, France.
(6)Department of Surgery, Clinique Du Cèdre, Bois-Guillaume, France. (7)INSERM
U918, Centre Henri Becquerel, Rouen, France. (8)Department of Medical Oncology,
Centre Henri Becquerel, Rouen, France.

Acquired estrogen receptor gene (ESR1) mutations have been recently reported as a
marker of resistance to aromatase inhibitors in hormone receptor positive
metastatic breast cancer. We retrospectively considered seven patients treated
for metastatic breast cancer with available samples from the primary tumor before
any treatment, cryopreserved metastasis removed during progression and
concomitant plasmas. All these seven patients were in disease progression after
previous exposure to aromatase inhibitors for at least 6 months, and were
assessed for ESR1 mutations detection in tumor and circulating DNA. For these
patients, Sanger sequencing identified four metastases with clear ESR1 mutation
and one possible, whereas digital PCR identified six mutated metastases. Then,
under blind conditions and using digital PCR, corresponding circulating ESR1
mutations were successfully detected in four of these six metastatic breast
cancer patients. Moreover, in two patients with serial blood samples following
treatments exposure, the monitoring of circulating ESR1 mutations clearly
predicted disease evolution. In the context of high interest for ESR1 mutations, 
our results highlight that these acquired recurrent mutations may be tracked in
circulating tumor DNA and may be of clinical relevance for metastatic breast
cancer patient monitoring.

© 2015 UICC.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.29612 
PMID: 25994408  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. EMBO Mol Med. 2015 Aug;7(8):1034-47. doi: 10.15252/emmm.201404913.

Serial monitoring of circulating tumor DNA in patients with primary breast cancer
for detection of occult metastatic disease.

Olsson E(1), Winter C(1), George A(1), Chen Y(1), Howlin J(1), Tang MH(1),
Dahlgren M(1), Schulz R(2), Grabau D(3), van Westen D(4), Fernö M(1), Ingvar
C(5), Rose C(6), Bendahl PO(1), Rydén L(7), Borg Å(8), Gruvberger-Saal SK(1),
Jernström H(1), Saal LH(9).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Oncology and Pathology, Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund
University, Lund, Sweden Lund University Cancer Center, Lund, Sweden. (2)Division
of Oncology and Pathology, Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund University,
Lund, Sweden Lund University Cancer Center, Lund, Sweden SCIBLU Genomics,
Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund University, Lund, Sweden. (3)Department of 
Pathology, Skåne University Hospital, Lund, Sweden. (4)Department of Radiology,
Skåne University Hospital, Lund, Sweden. (5)Department of Surgery, Lund
University and Skåne University Hospital, Lund, Sweden. (6)Lund University Cancer
Center, Lund, Sweden Department of Immunotechnology, Lund University, Lund,
Sweden CREATE Health Strategic Centre for Translational Cancer Research, Lund
University, Lund, Sweden. (7)Lund University Cancer Center, Lund, Sweden
Department of Surgery, Lund University and Skåne University Hospital, Lund,
Sweden. (8)Division of Oncology and Pathology, Department of Clinical Sciences,
Lund University, Lund, Sweden Lund University Cancer Center, Lund, Sweden SCIBLU 
Genomics, Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund University, Lund, Sweden CREATE
Health Strategic Centre for Translational Cancer Research, Lund University, Lund,
Sweden. (9)Division of Oncology and Pathology, Department of Clinical Sciences,
Lund University, Lund, Sweden Lund University Cancer Center, Lund, Sweden CREATE 
Health Strategic Centre for Translational Cancer Research, Lund University, Lund,
Sweden lao.saal@med.lu.se.

Comment in
    EMBO Mol Med. 2015 Aug;7(8):994-5.

Metastatic breast cancer is usually diagnosed after becoming symptomatic, at
which point it is rarely curable. Cell-free circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA)
contains tumor-specific chromosomal rearrangements that may be interrogated in
blood plasma. We evaluated serial monitoring of ctDNA for earlier detection of
metastasis in a retrospective study of 20 patients diagnosed with primary breast 
cancer and long follow-up. Using an approach combining low-coverage whole-genome 
sequencing of primary tumors and quantification of tumor-specific rearrangements 
in plasma by droplet digital PCR, we identify for the first time that ctDNA
monitoring is highly accurate for postsurgical discrimination between patients
with (93%) and without (100%) eventual clinically detected recurrence.
ctDNA-based detection preceded clinical detection of metastasis in 86% of
patients with an average lead time of 11 months (range 0-37 months), whereas
patients with long-term disease-free survival had undetectable ctDNA
postoperatively. ctDNA quantity was predictive of poor survival. These findings
establish the rationale for larger validation studies in early breast cancer to
evaluate ctDNA as a monitoring tool for early metastasis detection, therapy
modification, and to aid in avoidance of overtreatment.

© 2015 The Authors. Published under the terms of the CC BY 4.0 license.

DOI: 10.15252/emmm.201404913 
PMCID: PMC4551342
PMID: 25987569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Methods Mol Biol. 2015;1302:331-47. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-2620-6_24.

Droplet digital PCR for absolute quantification of pathogens.

Gutiérrez-Aguirre I(1), Rački N, Dreo T, Ravnikar M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Systems Biology, National Institute of
Biology, Večna pot 111, 1000, Ljubljana, Slovenia, ion.gutierrez@nib.si.

The recent advent of different digital PCR (dPCR) platforms is enabling the
expansion of this technology for research and diagnostic applications worldwide. 
The main principle of dPCR, as in other PCR-based methods including quantitative 
PCR (qPCR), is the specific amplification of a nucleic acid target. The
distinctive feature of dPCR is the separation of the reaction mixture into
thousands to millions of partitions which is followed by a real time or end point
detection of the amplification. The distribution of target sequences into
partitions is described by the Poisson distribution, thus allowing accurate and
absolute quantification of the target from the ratio of positive against all
partitions at the end of the reaction. This omits the need to use reference
materials with known target concentrations and increases the accuracy of
quantification at low target concentrations compared to qPCR. dPCR has also shown
higher resilience to inhibitors in a number of different types of samples. In
this chapter we describe the droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) workflow for the
detection and quantification of pathogens using the droplet digital Bio-Rad
platform QX100. We present as an example the quantification of the quarantine
plant pathogenic bacterium, Erwinia amylovora.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-2620-6_24 
PMID: 25981265  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Clin Chem. 2015 Jul;61(7):974-82. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2015.238717. Epub 2015
May 15.

Noninvasive detection of activating estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) mutations in
estrogen receptor-positive metastatic breast cancer.

Guttery DS(1), Page K(1), Hills A(2), Woodley L(3), Marchese SD(2), Rghebi B(1), 
Hastings RK(4), Luo J(4), Pringle JH(1), Stebbing J(2), Coombes RC(2), Ali S(2), 
Shaw JA(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cancer Studies and Cancer Research UK Leicester Centre,
University of Leicester, Leicester, UK; (2)Imperial College, Department of
Surgery and Cancer, Charing Cross Hospital, London, UK; (3)Experimental Cancer
Medicine Centre Network, Imperial College, Charing Cross Hospital, London, UK;
(4)Cancer Research UK Leicester Centre, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK.
(5)Department of Cancer Studies and Cancer Research UK Leicester Centre,
University of Leicester, Leicester, UK; js39@le.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Activating mutations in the estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) gene are
acquired on treatment and can drive resistance to endocrine therapy. Because of
the spatial and temporal limitations of needle core biopsies, our goal was to
develop a highly sensitive, less invasive method of detecting activating ESR1
mutations via circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) and tumor cells as a "liquid
biopsy."
METHODS: We developed a targeted 23-amplicon next-generation sequencing (NGS)
panel for detection of hot-spot mutations in ESR1,
phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase, catalytic subunit alpha (PIK3CA),
tumor protein p53 (TP53), fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1), and
fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) in 48 patients with estrogen
receptor-α-positive metastatic breast cancer who were receiving systemic therapy.
Selected mutations were validated using droplet digital PCR (ddPCR).
RESULTS: Nine baseline cfDNA samples had an ESR1 mutation. NGS detected 3
activating mutations in ESR1, and 3 hot-spot mutations in PIK3CA, and 3 in TP53
in baseline cfDNA, and the ESR1 p.D538G mutation in 1 matched circulating tumor
cell sample. ddPCR analysis was more sensitive than NGS and identified 6
additional baseline cfDNA samples with the ESR1 p.D538G mutation at a frequency
of <1%. In serial blood samples from 11 patients, 4 showed changes in cfDNA, 2
with emergence of a mutation in ESR1. We also detected a low frequency ESR1
mutation (1.3%) in cfDNA of 1 primary patient who was thought to have metastatic 
disease but was clear by scans.
CONCLUSIONS: Early identification of ESR1 mutations by liquid biopsy might allow 
for cessation of ineffective endocrine therapies and switching to other
treatments, without the need for tissue biopsy and before the emergence of
metastatic disease.

© 2015 American Association for Clinical Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2015.238717 
PMID: 25979954  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Vet Rec. 2015 Jun 13;176(24):626. doi: 10.1136/vr.102907. Epub 2015 May 14.

Association of treponeme species with atypical foot lesions in goats.

Groenevelt M(1), Anzuino K(2), Langton DA(1), Grogono-Thomas R(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Bristol, School of Veterinary Sciences, Langford House,
Langford, Bristol BS40 5DU, UK. (2)Willow Walk, Honiton EX14 2FX, UK.

Five UK goat farms with high levels of lameness (prevalence 14-67 per cent) were 
investigated. On two farms (farms 1 and 2), the animals presented with typical
footrot lesions. The remaining three farms (farms 3, 4 and 5) presented with
infected lesions on the foot that did not resemble footrot. These lesions were
observed to start from the white line or sole but the interdigital space was
rarely affected. Swabs were processed by PCR to assess the presence of
Dichelobacter nodosus and three specific treponeme groups (group 1: Treponema
medium/Treponema vincentii-like, group 2: Treponema phagedenis-like and group 3: 
Treponema denticola/Treponema putidum-like) that are reported to be associated
with bovine digital dermatitis and contagious ovine digital dermatitis. On farms 
1 and 2, 85.7 per cent of samples were found to be positive for D nodosus while
only 9.5 per cent were positive for treponeme groups 1, 2 and 3. In contrast, 5.3
per cent of samples from farms 3, 4 and 5 were positive for D nodosus, while
34.2, 68.4 and 36.8 per cent of samples from these farms tested positive for
treponeme groups 1, 2 and 3, respectively. T medium/T vincentii-like, T
phagedenis-like and T denticola/T putidum-like treponemes were detected on foot
lesions of lame goats suggesting that they have a role in the aetiology of this
lameness, which has not previously been described in dairy goats.

British Veterinary Association.

DOI: 10.1136/vr.102907 
PMID: 25977404  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. PLoS One. 2015 May 13;10(5):e0126501. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0126501.
eCollection 2015.

Noninvasive Digital Detection of Fetal DNA in Plasma of 4-Week-Pregnant Women
following In Vitro Fertilization and Embryo Transfer.

Karakas B(1), Qubbaj W(2), Al-Hassan S(3), Coskun S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Oncology, King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research
Center, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. (2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine,
King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Center, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, King Faisal Specialist Hospital and
Research Center, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. (4)Department of Pathology and Laboratory 
Medicine, King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Center, Riyadh, Saudi
Arabia; Alfaisal University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

The discovery of cell-free fetal DNA (cfDNA) circulating in the maternal blood
has provided new opportunities for noninvasive prenatal diagnosis (NIPD).
However, the extremely low levels of cfDNA within a high background of the
maternal DNA in maternal circulation necessitate highly sensitive molecular
techniques for its reliable use in NIPD. In this proof of principle study, we
evaluated the earliest possible detection of cfDNA in the maternal plasma by a
bead-based emulsion PCR technology known as BEAMing (beads, emulsion,
amplification, magnetics). Blood samples were collected from in vitro
fertilization (IVF) patients at 2 to 6 weeks following embryo transfer (i.e., 4
to 8 week pregnancies) and plasma DNA was extracted. The genomic regions of both 
X and Y chromosome-specific sequences (AMELX and AMELY) were concurrently
amplified in two sequential PCRs; first by conventional PCR then by BEAMing. The 
positive beads either for AMELX or AMELY gene sequences were counted by a flow
cytometer. Our results showed that the pregnancies yielding boys had
significantly higher plasma AMELY gene fractions (0.512 ± 0.221) than the ones
yielding girls (0.028 ± 0.003) or non-pregnant women (0.020 ± 0.005, P= 0.0059). 
Here, we clearly demonstrated that the BEAMing technique is capable of reliably
detecting cfDNA in the blood circulation of 4-week-pregnant women, which is only 
two weeks after the embryo transfer. BEAMing technique can also be used to early 
detect fetal DNA alterations in other pregnancy-associated disorders.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0126501 
PMCID: PMC4430227
PMID: 25970589  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Nucleic Acids Res. 2015 Jun 23;43(11):5560-71. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkv469. Epub 2015
May 11.

mRNA transfection of a novel TAL effector nuclease (TALEN) facilitates efficient 
knockout of HIV co-receptor CCR5.

Mock U(1), Machowicz R(2), Hauber I(3), Horn S(1), Abramowski P(1), Berdien B(1),
Hauber J(4), Fehse B(5).

Author information: 
(1)Research Dept. Cell and Gene Therapy, Dept. of Stem Cell Transplantation,
University Medical Centre Hamburg-Eppendorf (UKE), Hamburg, 20246, Germany.
(2)Research Dept. Cell and Gene Therapy, Dept. of Stem Cell Transplantation,
University Medical Centre Hamburg-Eppendorf (UKE), Hamburg, 20246, Germany
Department of Hematology, Oncology and Internal Medicine, Medical University of
Warsaw, 02-097, Poland. (3)Heinrich Pette Institute, Leibniz Institute for
Experimental Virology, Hamburg, 20251, Germany. (4)Heinrich Pette Institute,
Leibniz Institute for Experimental Virology, Hamburg, 20251, Germany German
Center for Infection Research (DZIF), partner site Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany.
(5)Research Dept. Cell and Gene Therapy, Dept. of Stem Cell Transplantation,
University Medical Centre Hamburg-Eppendorf (UKE), Hamburg, 20246, Germany
fehse@uke.de.

Homozygosity for a natural deletion variant of the HIV-coreceptor molecule CCR5, 
CCR5Δ32, confers resistance toward HIV infection. Allogeneic stem cell
transplantation from a CCR5Δ32-homozygous donor has resulted in the first cure
from HIV ('Berlin patient'). Based thereon, genetic disruption of CCR5 using
designer nucleases was proposed as a promising HIV gene-therapy approach. Here we
introduce a novel TAL-effector nuclease, CCR5-Uco-TALEN that can be efficiently
delivered into T cells by mRNA electroporation, a gentle and truly transient
gene-transfer technique. CCR5-Uco-TALEN mediated high-rate CCR5 knockout (>90% in
PM1 and >50% in primary T cells) combined with low off-target activity, as
assessed by flow cytometry, next-generation sequencing and a newly devised, very 
convenient gene-editing frequency digital-PCR (GEF-dPCR). GEF-dPCR facilitates
simultaneous detection of wild-type and gene-edited alleles with remarkable
sensitivity and accuracy as shown for the CCR5 on-target and CCR2 off-target
loci. CCR5-edited cells were protected from infection with HIV-derived lentiviral
vectors, but also with the wild-type CCR5-tropic HIV-1BaL strain. Long-term
exposure to HIV-1BaL resulted in almost complete suppression of viral replication
and selection of CCR5-gene edited T cells. In conclusion, we have developed a
novel TALEN for the targeted, high-efficiency knockout of CCR5 and a useful
dPCR-based gene-editing detection method.

© The Author(s) 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic
Acids Research.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkv469 
PMCID: PMC4477672
PMID: 25964300  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Expert Rev Mol Diagn. 2015;15(7):861-7. doi: 10.1586/14737159.2015.1044440. Epub 
2015 May 8.

Recent progress in developing proximity ligation assays for pathogen detection.

Greenwood C(1), Johnson G, Dhillon HS, Bustin S.

Author information: 
(1)Postgraduate Medical Institute, Faculty of Medical Science, Anglia Ruskin
University, Chelmsford, Essex, UK.

The effective management of infectious diseases depends on the early detection of
the microbes responsible, since pathogens are most effectively eliminated in the 
initial stages of infection. Current immunodiagnostic methods lack the
sensitivity for earliest possible diagnosis. Nucleic acid-based tests (NATs) are 
more sensitive, but the detection of microbial DNA does not definitively prove
the presence of a viable microorganism capable of causing a given infection.
Proximity assays combine the specificity of antibody-based detection of proteins 
with the sensitivity and dynamic range of NATs, and their use may allow earlier
as well as more clinically relevant detection than is possible with current NATs 
or immunoassays. However, the full potential of proximity assays for pathogen
detection remains to be fulfilled, mainly due to the challenges associated with
identifying suitable antibodies and antibody combinations, sensitivity issues
arising from non-specific interactions of proximity probes and the longer
incubation times required to carry out the assays.

DOI: 10.1586/14737159.2015.1044440 
PMID: 25955213  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. J Mol Diagn. 2015 Jul;17(4):366-73. doi: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2015.02.004. Epub 2015 
May 5.

Next-Generation Genotyping by Digital PCR to Detect and Quantify the BRAF V600E
Mutation in Melanoma Biopsies.

Lamy PJ(1), Castan F(2), Lozano N(3), Montélion C(3), Audran P(3), Bibeau F(4),
Roques S(3), Montels F(3), Laberenne AC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology and Oncogenetics, Institut Régional du Cancer de
Montpellier, Montpellier, France; Department of Biobank, Institut Régional du
Cancer de Montpellier, Montpellier, France. Electronic address:
pierre-jean.lamy@icm.unicancer.fr. (2)Department of Statistics, Institut Régional
du Cancer de Montpellier, Montpellier, France. (3)Department of Biology and
Oncogenetics, Institut Régional du Cancer de Montpellier, Montpellier, France.
(4)Department of Biobank, Institut Régional du Cancer de Montpellier,
Montpellier, France; Department of Pathology, Institut Régional du Cancer de
Montpellier, Montpellier, France.

The detection of the BRAF V600E mutation in melanoma samples is used to select
patients who should respond to BRAF inhibitors. Different techniques are
routinely used to determine BRAF status in clinical samples. However, low tumor
cellularity and tumor heterogeneity can affect the sensitivity of somatic
mutation detection. Digital PCR (dPCR) is a next-generation genotyping method
that clonally amplifies nucleic acids and allows the detection and quantification
of rare mutations. Our aim was to evaluate the clinical routine performance of a 
new dPCR-based test to detect and quantify BRAF mutation load in 47
paraffin-embedded cutaneous melanoma biopsies. We compared the results obtained
by dPCR with high-resolution melting curve analysis and pyrosequencing or with
one of the allele-specific PCR methods available on the market. dPCR showed the
lowest limit of detection. dPCR and allele-specific amplification detected the
highest number of mutated samples. For the BRAF mutation load quantification both
dPCR and pyrosequencing gave similar results with strong disparities in allele
frequencies in the 47 tumor samples under study (from 0.7% to 79% of BRAF V600E
mutations/sample). In conclusion, the four methods showed a high degree of
concordance. dPCR was the more-sensitive method to reliably and easily detect
mutations. Both pyrosequencing and dPCR could quantify the mutation load in
heterogeneous tumor samples.

Copyright © 2015 American Society for Investigative Pathology and the Association
for Molecular Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2015.02.004 
PMID: 25952101  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Eur J Haematol. 2015 Oct;95(4):270-9. doi: 10.1111/ejh.12578. Epub 2015 May 18.

Molecular diagnostics of myeloproliferative neoplasms.

Langabeer SE(1), Andrikovics H(2), Asp J(3), Bellosillo B(4), Carillo S(5),
Haslam K(1), Kjaer L(6), Lippert E(7), Mansier O(7), Oppliger Leibundgut E(8),
Percy MJ(9), Porret N(8), Palmqvist L(3), Schwarz J(10), McMullin MF(11),
Schnittger S(12), Pallisgaard N(13), Hermouet S(14,)(15); MPN&MPNr-EuroNet.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Molecular Diagnostics, St. James's Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.
(2)Laboratory of Molecular Diagnostics, Hungarian National Blood Transfusion
Service, Budapest, Hungary. (3)Department of Clinical Chemistry and Transfusion
Medicine, Institute of Biomedicine, Sahlgrenska Academy University of Gothenburg,
Gothenburg, Sweden. (4)Pathology Department, Hospital del Mar, Barcelona, Spain. 
(5)Départment de Cytologie Clinique, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Nîmes,
Nîmes, France. (6)Department of Hematology, Roskilde Hospital, Roskilde, Denmark.
(7)Laboratoire d'Hématologie, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Bordeaux,
Bordeaux, France. (8)Department of Hematology, University Hospital Bern, Bern,
Switzerland. (9)Department of Haematology, Belfast City Hospital, Belfast, UK.
(10)Department of Hematology, Institute of Hematology and Blood Transfusion,
Prague, Czech Republic. (11)Centre for Cancer Research and Cell Biology, Queen's 
University, Belfast, UK. (12)MLL Munich Leukemia Laboratory, Munich, Germany.
(13)Department of Clinical Immunology and Biochemistry, Vejle Hospital, Vejle,
Denmark. (14)Laboratoire d'Hématologie, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de
Nantes, Nantes, France. (15)Inserm UMR89/CNRS UMR6299, Centre de Recherche en
Cancérologie Nantes-Angers, Institut de Recherche en Santé de L'Université de
Nantes, Nantes, France.

Since the discovery of the JAK2 V617F mutation in the majority of the
myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN) of polycythemia vera, essential
thrombocythemia and primary myelofibrosis ten years ago, further MPN-specific
mutational events, notably in JAK2 exon 12, MPL exon 10 and CALR exon 9 have been
identified. These discoveries have been rapidly incorporated into evolving
molecular diagnostic algorithms. Whilst many of these mutations appear to have
prognostic implications, establishing MPN diagnosis is of immediate clinical
importance with selection, implementation and the continual evaluation of the
appropriate laboratory methodology to achieve this diagnosis similarly vital. The
advantages and limitations of these approaches in identifying and quantitating
the common MPN-associated mutations are considered herein with particular regard 
to their clinical utility. The evolution of molecular diagnostic applications and
platforms has occurred in parallel with the discovery of MPN-associated
mutations, and it therefore appears likely that emerging technologies such as
next-generation sequencing and digital PCR will in the future play an increasing 
role in the molecular diagnosis of MPN.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejh.12578 
PMID: 25951317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. PLoS One. 2015 May 7;10(5):e0126148. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0126148.
eCollection 2015.

Transcriptome-wide identification of salt-responsive members of the WRKY gene
family in Gossypium aridum.

Fan X(1), Guo Q(2), Xu P(2), Gong Y(2), Shu H(2), Yang Y(2), Ni W(2), Zhang X(2),
Shen X(2).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Crop Genetics & Germplasm Enhancement, Nanjing
Agricultural University, Nanjing, China; Key Laboratory of Cotton and Rapeseed
(Nanjing), Ministry of Agriculture, P. R. China, The Institute of Industrial
Crops, Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Nanjing, China. (2)Key
Laboratory of Cotton and Rapeseed (Nanjing), Ministry of Agriculture, P. R.
China, The Institute of Industrial Crops, Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural
Sciences, Nanjing, China.

WRKY transcription factors are plant-specific, zinc finger-type transcription
factors. The WRKY superfamily is involved in abiotic stress responses in many
crops including cotton, a major fiber crop that is widely cultivated and consumed
throughout the world. Salinity is an important abiotic stress that results in
considerable yield losses. In this study, we identified 109 WRKY genes (GarWRKYs)
in a salt-tolerant wild cotton species Gossypium aridum from transcriptome
sequencing data to elucidate the roles of these factors in cotton salt tolerance.
According to their structural features, the predicted members were divided into
three groups (Groups I-III), as previously described for Arabidopsis.
Furthermore, 28 salt-responsive GarWRKY genes were identified from digital gene
expression data and subjected to real-time quantitative RT-PCR analysis. The
expression patterns of most GarWRKY genes revealed by this analysis are in good
agreement with those revealed by RNA-Seq analysis. RT-PCR analysis revealed that 
27 GarWRKY genes were expressed in roots and one was exclusively expressed in
roots. Analysis of gene orthology and motif compositions indicated that WRKY
members from Arabidopsis, rice and soybean generally shared the similar motifs
within the same subgroup, suggesting they have the similar function.
Overexpression-GarWRKY17 and -GarWRKY104 in Arabidopsis revealed that they could 
positively regulate salt tolerance of transgenic Arabidopsis during different
development stages. The comprehensive data generated in this study provide a
platform for elucidating the functions of WRKY transcription factors in salt
tolerance of G. aridum. In addition, GarWRKYs related to salt tolerance
identified in this study will be potential candidates for genetic improvement of 
cultivated cotton salt stress tolerance.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0126148 
PMCID: PMC4423833
PMID: 25951083  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Oncotarget. 2015 May 30;6(15):13269-77.

Absolute quantification of the pretreatment PML-RARA transcript defines the
relapse risk in acute promyelocytic leukemia.

Albano F(1), Zagaria A(1), Anelli L(1), Coccaro N(1), Tota G(1), Brunetti C(1),
Minervini CF(1), Impera L(1), Minervini A(1), Cellamare A(1), Orsini P(1), Cumbo 
C(1), Casieri P(1), Specchia G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Emergency and Organ Transplantation (D.E.T.O.), Hematology
Section, University of Bari, 70124, Bari, Italy.

In this study we performed absolute quantification of the PML-RARA transcript by 
droplet digital polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR) in 76 newly diagnosed acute
promyelocytic leukemia (APL) cases to verify the prognostic impact of the
PML-RARA initial molecular burden. ddPCR analysis revealed that the amount of
PML-RARA transcript at diagnosis in the group of patients who relapsed was higher
than in that with continuous complete remission (CCR) (272 vs 89.2 PML-RARA
copies/ng, p = 0.0004, respectively). Receiver operating characteristic analysis 
detected the optimal PML-RARA concentration threshold as 209.6 PML-RARA/ng (AUC
0.78; p < 0.0001) for discriminating between outcomes (CCR versus relapse). Among
the 67 APL cases who achieved complete remission after the induction treatment,
those with >209.6 PML-RARA/ng had a worse relapse-free survival (p = 0.0006). At 
5-year follow-up, patients with >209.6 PML-RARA/ng had a cumulative incidence of 
relapse of 50.3% whereas 7.5% of the patients with suffered a relapse (p <
0.0001). Multivariate analysis identified the amount of PML-RARA before induction
treatment as the sole independent prognostic factor for APL relapse.Our results
show that the pretreatment PML-RARA molecular burden could therefore be used to
improve risk stratification in order to develop more individualized treatment
regimens for high-risk APL cases.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.3773 
PMCID: PMC4537013
PMID: 25944686  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. BMC Cancer. 2015 May 6;15:360. doi: 10.1186/s12885-015-1383-x.

High-recovery visual identification and single-cell retrieval of circulating
tumor cells for genomic analysis using a dual-technology platform integrated with
automated immunofluorescence staining.

Campton DE(1), Ramirez AB(2), Nordberg JJ(3), Drovetto N(4), Clein AC(5),
Varshavskaya P(6), Friemel BH(7), Quarre S(8), Breman A(9), Dorschner M(10), Blau
S(11), Blau CA(12), Sabath DE(13), Stilwell JL(14), Kaldjian EP(15).

Author information: 
(1)RareCyte, Inc, Seattle, WA, USA. dcampton@rarecyte.com. (2)RareCyte, Inc,
Seattle, WA, USA. aramirez@rarecyte.com. (3)RareCyte, Inc, Seattle, WA, USA.
jnordberg@rarecyte.com. (4)RareCyte, Inc, Seattle, WA, USA.
ndrovetto@rarecyte.com. (5)Departments of Laboratory Medicine and Medicine,
University of Washington, Washington, USA. aclein@uw.edu. (6)RareCyte, Inc,
Seattle, WA, USA. pvarshavskaya@rarecyte.com. (7)RareCyte, Inc, Seattle, WA, USA.
bfriemel@rarecyte.com. (8)RareCyte, Inc, Seattle, WA, USA. squarre@rarecyte.com. 
(9)Medical Genetics Laboratories, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, USA.
breman@bcm.edu. (10)Department of Pathology, University of Washington,
Washington, USA. mod@uw.edu. (11)Rainier Hematology-Oncology, Northwest Medical
Specialties, Washington, USA. sibelblau@msn.com. (12)Center for Cancer
Innovation, University of Washington, Washington, USA. tblau@uw.edu.
(13)Departments of Laboratory Medicine and Medicine, University of Washington,
Washington, USA. dsabath@u.washington.edu. (14)RareCyte, Inc, Seattle, WA, USA.
jstilwell@rarecyte.com. (15)RareCyte, Inc, Seattle, WA, USA.
ekaldjian@rarecyte.com.

BACKGROUND: Circulating tumor cells (CTCs) are malignant cells that have migrated
from solid cancers into the blood, where they are typically present in rare
numbers. There is great interest in using CTCs to monitor response to therapies, 
to identify clinically actionable biomarkers, and to provide a non-invasive
window on the molecular state of a tumor. Here we characterize the performance of
the AccuCyte®--CyteFinder® system, a comprehensive, reproducible and highly
sensitive platform for collecting, identifying and retrieving individual CTCs
from microscopic slides for molecular analysis after automated immunofluorescence
staining for epithelial markers.
METHODS: All experiments employed a density-based cell separation apparatus
(AccuCyte) to separate nucleated cells from the blood and transfer them to
microscopic slides. After staining, the slides were imaged using a digital
scanning microscope (CyteFinder). Precisely counted model CTCs (mCTCs) from four 
cancer cell lines were spiked into whole blood to determine recovery rates.
Individual mCTCs were removed from slides using a single-cell retrieval device
(CytePicker™) for whole genome amplification and subsequent analysis by PCR and
Sanger sequencing, whole exome sequencing, or array-based comparative genomic
hybridization. Clinical CTCs were evaluated in blood samples from patients with
different cancers in comparison with the CellSearch® system.
RESULTS: AccuCyte--CyteFinder presented high-resolution images that allowed
identification of mCTCs by morphologic and phenotypic features. Spike-in mCTC
recoveries were between 90 and 91%. More than 80% of single-digit spike-in mCTCs 
were identified and even a single cell in 7.5 mL could be found. Analysis of
single SKBR3 mCTCs identified presence of a known TP53 mutation by both PCR and
whole exome sequencing, and confirmed the reported karyotype of this cell line.
Patient sample CTC counts matched or exceeded CellSearch CTC counts in a small
feasibility cohort.
CONCLUSION: The AccuCyte--CyteFinder system is a comprehensive and sensitive
platform for identification and characterization of CTCs that has been applied to
the assessment of CTCs in cancer patient samples as well as the isolation of
single cells for genomic analysis. It thus enables accurate non-invasive
monitoring of CTCs and evolving cancer biology for personalized,
molecularly-guided cancer treatment.

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-015-1383-x 
PMCID: PMC4430903
PMID: 25944336  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Nat Med. 2015 Jun;21(6):560-2. doi: 10.1038/nm.3854. Epub 2015 May 4.

Acquired EGFR C797S mutation mediates resistance to AZD9291 in non-small cell
lung cancer harboring EGFR T790M.

Thress KS(1), Paweletz CP(2), Felip E(3), Cho BC(4), Stetson D(1), Dougherty
B(1), Lai Z(1), Markovets A(1), Vivancos A(5), Kuang Y(2), Ercan D(6), Matthews
SE(6), Cantarini M(7), Barrett JC(1), Jänne PA(2), Oxnard GR(6).

Author information: 
(1)AstraZeneca, Gatehouse Park, Waltham, Massachusetts, USA. (2)1] Department of 
Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. [2]
Belfer Institute for Applied Cancer Science, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute,
Boston, Massachusetts, USA. (3)1] Vall d'Hebron Institute of Oncology, Barcelona,
Spain. [2] Vall d'Hebron University Hospital, Barcelona, Spain. (4)Yonsei Cancer 
Center, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. (5)Vall d'Hebron
Institute of Oncology, Barcelona, Spain. (6)Department of Medical Oncology,
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. (7)AstraZeneca,
Alderley Park, Macclesfield, UK.

Here we studied cell-free plasma DNA (cfDNA) collected from subjects with
advanced lung cancer whose tumors had developed resistance to the epidermal
growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) AZD9291. We first
performed next-generation sequencing of cfDNA from seven subjects and detected an
acquired EGFR C797S mutation in one; expression of this mutant EGFR construct in 
a cell line rendered it resistant to AZD9291. We then performed droplet digital
PCR on serial cfDNA specimens collected from 15 AZD9291-treated subjects. All
were positive for the T790M mutation before treatment, but upon developing
AZD9291 resistance three molecular subtypes emerged: six cases acquired the C797S
mutation, five cases maintained the T790M mutation but did not acquire the C797S 
mutation and four cases lost the T790M mutation despite the presence of the
underlying EGFR activating mutation. Our findings provide insight into the
diversity of mechanisms through which tumors acquire resistance to AZD9291 and
highlight the need for therapies that are able to overcome resistance mediated by
the EGFR C797S mutation.

DOI: 10.1038/nm.3854 
PMCID: PMC4771182
PMID: 25939061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Vet Microbiol. 2015 Jul 9;178(1-2):77-87. doi: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2015.04.011. Epub
2015 Apr 21.

A molecular epidemiology of treponemes in beef cattle digital dermatitis lesions 
and comparative analyses with sheep contagious ovine digital dermatitis and dairy
cattle digital dermatitis lesions.

Sullivan LE(1), Evans NJ(2), Blowey RW(3), Grove-White DH(4), Clegg SR(2), Duncan
JS(4), Carter SD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infection Biology, School of Veterinary Science, Institute of
infection and Global Health, Liverpool, Merseyside, L3 5RF, UK. Electronic
address: l.sullivan@liverpool.ac.uk. (2)Department of Infection Biology, School
of Veterinary Science, Institute of infection and Global Health, Liverpool,
Merseyside, L3 5RF, UK. (3)University of Liverpool & Wood Veterinary Group,
Gloucester, Gloucestershire, GL2 4NB UK. (4)Department of Epidemiology and
Population Health, Institute of Infection and Global Health, University of
Liverpool, Leahurst Campus, Neston, Wirral, Cheshire CH64 7TE, UK.

Bovine digital dermatitis (BDD) is an infective foot disease commonly reported in
dairy cattle where Treponema are considered as the primary causative infectious
agents. There still remains little definitive information on the etiology of BDD 
in beef cattle suggesting further investigations are warranted. Beef BDD lesions 
(n=34) and healthy beef foot tissues (n=38) were analysed by PCR for three
BDD-associated Treponema phylogroups and also for Dichelobacter nodosus and
Fusobacterium necrophorum. Spirochete culture was attempted on all BDD lesion
samples. One or more BDD-associated Treponema phylogroups were detected in 100%
of beef BDD lesions. "Treponema medium/Treponema vincentii-like", "Treponema
phagedenis-like" and Treponema pedis spirochetes were identified in 27/34 (79%), 
31/34 (91%) and 24/34 (71%) of BDD lesions, respectively. No BDD-associated
treponeme DNA was amplified from beef healthy foot tissues. D. nodosus and F.
necrophorum were present in 24/34 (71%) and 15/34 (44%) of lesions and 10/38
(26%) and 12/38 (32%) of healthy foot tissues, respectively. Twenty spirochetes
were isolated from beef BDD lesions; 19 were representatives of the three
BDD-associated Treponema phylogroups. One spirochete isolate shared less than 97%
16S rRNA gene similarity to the three cultivable BDD-associated Treponema
phylogroups and therefore may represent a novel taxa of Treponema. Upon
comparison, sheep contagious ovine digital dermatitis (CODD), dairy cattle and
beef cattle BDD lesions appear to have extremely similar bacteriological data and
therefore provides evidence of a shared etiopathogenesis posing concerns for
cross-species transmission.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2015.04.011 
PMID: 25937315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Br J Cancer. 2015 May 12;112(10):1652-5. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2015.129. Epub 2015 Apr
21.

Droplet digital PCR measurement of HER2 in patients with gastric cancer.

Kinugasa H(1), Nouso K(2), Tanaka T(3), Miyahara K(1), Morimoto Y(1), Dohi C(1), 
Matsubara T(4), Okada H(1), Yamamoto K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Okayama University Graduate
School of Medicine, Dentistry, and Pharmaceutical Sciences, 2-5-1 Shikata-cho,
Kita-ku, Okayama 700-8558, Japan. (2)1] Department of Gastroenterology and
Hepatology, Okayama University Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry, and
Pharmaceutical Sciences, 2-5-1 Shikata-cho, Kita-ku, Okayama 700-8558, Japan [2] 
Department of Molecular Hepatology, Okayama University Graduate School of
Medicine, Dentistry, and Pharmaceutical Sciences, 2-5-1 Shikata-cho, Kita-ku,
Okayama 700-8558, Japan. (3)Department of Pathology, Okayama University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Dentistry, and Pharmaceutical Sciences, 2-5-1 Shikata-cho,
Kita-ku, Okayama 700-8558, Japan. (4)BioRepository/BioMarker Analysis Center,
Innovative Clinical Medicine, Okayama University Hospital, 2-5-1 Shikata-cho,
Kita-ku, Okayama 700-8558, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Although there are some new criteria for human epidermal growth
factor receptor 2 (HER2) expression with immunohistochemistry/fluorescence in
situ hybridisation (IHC/FISH) in gastric cancer, the method is still ambiguous
and is somewhat dependent on the subjective qualities of the evaluator.
METHODS: We used droplet digital polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR) to evaluate
HER2 amplification in formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded (FFPE) samples and
cell-free serum circulating tumour DNA (ctDNA) in 25 patients with gastric
cancer.
RESULTS: The concordance rate of HER2 amplification examined in FFPE samples with
ddPCR and IHC/FISH was 92% (23 out of 25). The concordance rate of FFPE with
ctDNA was not high (62.5%); however, patients who were HER2-positive by ctDNA had
significantly shorter survival compared with HER2-negative patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrated that this ddPCR method was as effective as 
IHC/FISH and therefore might become a standard method for analysing not only FFPE
but also ctDNA.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.2015.129 
PMCID: PMC4430718
PMID: 25897674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Arthritis Res Ther. 2015 Mar 13;17:58. doi: 10.1186/s13075-015-0567-8.

Angiogenic gene expression and vascular density are reflected in ultrasonographic
features of synovitis in early Rheumatoid Arthritis: an observational study.

Kelly S(1), Bombardieri M(2), Humby F(3), Ng N(4), Marrelli A(5), Riahi S(6),
DiCicco M(7), Mahto A(8), Zou L(9), Pyne D(10), Hands RE(11), Pitzalis C(12).

Author information: 
(1)Rheumatology Department, Barts Health NHS trust Mile End hospital, London, EH1
4DG, UK. stephenkelly@bartshealth.nhs.uk. (2)Queen Mary University of London,
Centre for Experimental Medicine and Rheumatology, William Harvey Research
Institute, Charterhouse Square, London, EC1M 6BQ, UK. m.bombardieri@qmul.ac.uk.
(3)Queen Mary University of London, Centre for Experimental Medicine and
Rheumatology, William Harvey Research Institute, Charterhouse Square, London,
EC1M 6BQ, UK. f.humby@qmul.ac.uk. (4)Queen Mary University of London, Centre for 
Experimental Medicine and Rheumatology, William Harvey Research Institute,
Charterhouse Square, London, EC1M 6BQ, UK. norang@doctors.org.uk. (5)Queen Mary
University of London, Centre for Experimental Medicine and Rheumatology, William 
Harvey Research Institute, Charterhouse Square, London, EC1M 6BQ, UK.
alessandramarrelli@tiscali.it. (6)Queen Mary University of London, Centre for
Experimental Medicine and Rheumatology, William Harvey Research Institute,
Charterhouse Square, London, EC1M 6BQ, UK. s.riahi@qmul.ac.uk. (7)Queen Mary
University of London, Centre for Experimental Medicine and Rheumatology, William 
Harvey Research Institute, Charterhouse Square, London, EC1M 6BQ, UK.
m.dicicco@qmul.ac.uk. (8)Queen Mary University of London, Centre for Experimental
Medicine and Rheumatology, William Harvey Research Institute, Charterhouse
Square, London, EC1M 6BQ, UK. a.mahto@qmul.ac.uk. (9)Queen Mary University of
London, Centre for Experimental Medicine and Rheumatology, William Harvey
Research Institute, Charterhouse Square, London, EC1M 6BQ, UK. lu.zou@qmul.ac.uk.
(10)Rheumatology Department, Barts Health NHS trust Mile End hospital, London,
EH1 4DG, UK. Dev.pyne@bartshealth.nhs.uk. (11)Queen Mary University of London,
Centre for Experimental Medicine and Rheumatology, William Harvey Research
Institute, Charterhouse Square, London, EC1M 6BQ, UK. r.e.hands@qmul.ac.uk.
(12)Queen Mary University of London, Centre for Experimental Medicine and
Rheumatology, William Harvey Research Institute, Charterhouse Square, London,
EC1M 6BQ, UK. c.pitzalis@qmul.ac.uk.

INTRODUCTION: Neovascularization contributes to the development of sustained
synovial inflammation in the early stages of Rheumatoid Arthritis. Ultrasound
(US) provides an indirect method of assessing synovial blood flow and has been
shown to correlate with clinical disease activity in patients with Rheumatoid
Arthritis. This study examines the relationship of US determined synovitis with
synovial vascularity, angiogenic/lymphangiogenic factors and cellular mediators
of inflammation in a cohort of patients with early Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)
patients prior to therapeutic intervention with disease modifying therapy or
corticosteroids.
METHODS: An ultrasound guided synovial biopsy of the supra-patella pouch was
performed in 12 patients with early RA prior to treatment. Clinical, US and
biochemical assessments were undertaken prior to the procedure. Ultrasound images
and histological samples were obtained from the supra-patella pouch. Histological
samples were stained for Factor VIII and a-SMA (a-smooth muscle actin). Using
digital imaging analysis a vascular area score was recorded. QT-PCR
(quantitative-PCR) of samples provided quantification of angiogenic and
lymphangiogenic gene expression and immunohistochemistry stained tissue was
scored for macrophage, T cell and B cell infiltration using an existing
semi-quantitative score.
RESULTS: Power Doppler showed a good correlation with histological vascular area 
(Spearman r--0.73) and angiogenic factors such as vascular endothelial growth
factor-A (VEGF-A), Angiopoietin 2 and Tie-2. In addition, lymphangiogenic factors
such as VEGF-C and VEGF-R3 correlated well with US assessment of synovitis. A
significant correlation was also found between power Doppler and synovial
thickness, pro-inflammatory cytokines and sub-lining macrophage infiltrate.
Within the supra-patella pouch there was no significant difference in US
findings, gene expression or inflammatory cell infiltrate between any regions of 
synovium biopsied.
CONCLUSION: Ultrasound assessment of synovial tissue faithfully reflects synovial
vascularity. Both grey scale and power Doppler synovitis in early RA patients
correlate with a pro-angiogenic and lymphangiogenic gene expression profile. In
early RA both grey scale and power Doppler synovitis are associated with a
pro-inflammatory cellular and cytokine profile providing considerable validity in
its use as an objective assessment of synovial inflammation in clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1186/s13075-015-0567-8 
PMCID: PMC4476089
PMID: 25889955  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. PLoS One. 2015 Apr 17;10(4):e0123825. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0123825.
eCollection 2015.

Differential gene expression in foxtail millet during incompatible interaction
with Uromyces setariae-italicae.

Li ZY(1), Wang N(2), Dong L(1), Bai H(1), Quan JZ(1), Liu L(1), Dong ZP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of plant protect, Millet Institute, Hebei Academy of Agricultural
and Forestry Sciences, National Foxtail Millet Improvement Center, Minor Cereal
Crops Laboratory of Hebei Province, Shijiazhuang, China. (2)Department of plant
protect, Millet Institute, Hebei Academy of Agricultural and Forestry Sciences,
National Foxtail Millet Improvement Center, Minor Cereal Crops Laboratory of
Hebei Province, Shijiazhuang, China; College of Life Science, Hebei Normal
University, Shijiazhuang, China.

Foxtail millet (Setaria italica) is an important food and fodder grain crop that 
is grown for human consumption. Production of this species is affected by several
plant diseases, such as rust. The cultivar Shilixiang has been identified as
resistant to the foxtail millet rust pathogen, Uromyces setariae-italicae. In
order to identify signaling pathways and genes related to the plant's defense
mechanisms against rust, the Shilixiang cultivar was used to construct a digital 
gene expression (DGE) library during the interaction of foxtail millet with U.
setariae-italicae. In this study, we determined the most abundant differentially 
expressed signaling pathways of up-regulated genes in foxtail millet and
identified significantly up-regulated genes. Finally, quantitative real-time
polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis was used to analyze the expression
of nine selected genes, and the patterns observed agreed well with DGE analysis. 
Expression levels of the genes were also compared between a resistant cultivar
Shilixiang and a susceptible cultivar Yugu-1, and the result indicated that
expression level of Shilixiang is higher than that of Yugu-1. This study reveals 
the relatively comprehensive mechanisms of rust-responsive transcription in
foxtail millet.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0123825 
PMCID: PMC4401669
PMID: 25885767  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Clin Cancer Res. 2015 Aug 1;21(15):3552-60. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-14-2151.
Epub 2015 Apr 16.

Ultra-Sensitive Detection of the Pretreatment EGFR T790M Mutation in Non-Small
Cell Lung Cancer Patients with an EGFR-Activating Mutation Using Droplet Digital 
PCR.

Watanabe M(1), Kawaguchi T(2), Isa S(3), Ando M(4), Tamiya A(5), Kubo A(6), Saka 
H(7), Takeo S(8), Adachi H(9), Tagawa T(10), Kakegawa S(11), Yamashita M(12),
Kataoka K(13), Ichinose Y(14), Takeuchi Y(15), Sakamoto K(16), Matsumura A(17),
Koh Y(18).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine and Medical Oncology, National Hospital
Organization Nagoya Medical Center, Aichi, Japan. Third Department of Internal
Medicine, Wakayama Medical University, Kimiidera, Wakayama, Japan. Drug Discovery
and Development Division, Shizuoka Cancer Center Research Institute, Shizuoka,
Japan. (2)National Hospital Organization Kinki-Chuo Chest Medical Center, Osaka, 
Japan. Department of Respiratory Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka
City University, Osaka, Japan. (3)Clinical Research Center, Department of Lung
Cancer Research, National Hospital Organization Kinki-chuo Chest Medical Center, 
Osaka, Japan. (4)Center for Advanced Medicine and Clinical Research, Nagoya
University Hospital, Aichi, Japan. (5)Department of Internal Medicine, National
Hospital Organization Kinki-chuo Chest Medical Center, Osaka, Japan.
(6)Department of Respiratory Medicine and Medical Oncology, National Hospital
Organization Nagoya Medical Center, Aichi, Japan. Division of Respiratory
Medicine and Allergology, Aichi Medical University School of Medicine, Aichi,
Japan. (7)Department of Respiratory Medicine and Medical Oncology, National
Hospital Organization Nagoya Medical Center, Aichi, Japan. (8)Department of
Thoracic Surgery, Clinical Research Institute, National Hospital Organization
Kyushu Medical Center, Fukuoka, Japan. (9)Department of Thoracic Surgery,
National Hospital Organization Hokkaido Cancer Center, Hokkaido, Japan.
(10)Department of Thoracic Surgery, National Hospital Organization Nagasaki
Medical Center, Nagasaki, Japan. (11)Department of Thoracic Surgery, National
Hospital Organization Nishigunma National Hospital, Gunma, Japan. (12)Department 
of Thoracic Surgery, National Hospital Organization Shikoku Cancer Center, Ehime,
Japan. (13)Department of Thoracic Surgery, National Hospital Organization Iwakuni
Clinical Center, Yamaguchi, Japan. (14)Clinical Research Institute, National
Kyushu Cancer Center, Fukuoka, Japan. (15)Department of General Thoracic Surgery,
National Hospital Organization Toneyama National Hospital, Osaka, Japan.
(16)Department of Respiratory Surgery, National Hospital Organization Yokohama
Medical Center, Kanagawa, Japan. (17)Department of Surgery, National Hospital
Organization Kinki-chuo Chest Medical Center, Osaka, Japan. (18)Department of
Respiratory Medicine and Medical Oncology, National Hospital Organization Nagoya 
Medical Center, Aichi, Japan. Third Department of Internal Medicine, Wakayama
Medical University, Kimiidera, Wakayama, Japan. Drug Discovery and Development
Division, Shizuoka Cancer Center Research Institute, Shizuoka, Japan.
ykoh@wakayama-med.ac.jp.

Comment in
    Transl Lung Cancer Res. 2016 Jun;5(3):338-42.

PURPOSE: The resistance to the EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) is a major
concern in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) treatment. T790M mutation in EGFR
accounts for nearly 50% of the acquired resistance to EGFR-TKIs. Earlier studies 
suggested that T790M mutation was also detected in TKI-naïve NSCLCs in a small
cohort. Here, we use an ultra-sensitive droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) technique to 
address the incidence and clinical significance of pretreatment T790M in a larger
cohort.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: ddPCR was established as follows: wild-type or T790M
mutation-containing DNA fragments were cloned into plasmids. Candidate threshold 
was identified using wild-type plasmid, normal human genomic DNA, and human A549 
cell line DNA, which expresses wild type. Surgically resected tumor tissues from 
373 NSCLC patients with EGFR-activating mutations were then examined for the
presence of T790M using ddPCR.
RESULTS: Our data revealed a linear performance for this ddPCR method (R(2) =
0.998) with an analytical sensitivity of approximately 0.001%. The overall
incidence of the pretreatment T790M mutation was 79.9% (298/373), and the
frequency ranged from 0.009% to 26.9%. The T790M mutation was detected more
frequently in patients with a larger tumor size (P = 0.019) and those with common
EGFR-activating mutations (P = 0.022), as compared with the others.
CONCLUSIONS: The ultra-sensitive ddPCR assay revealed that pretreatment T790M was
found in the majority of NSCLC patients with EGFR-activating mutations. ddPCR
should be utilized for detailed assessment of the impact of the low frequency
pretreatment T790M mutation on treatment with EGFR-TKIs.

©2015 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-14-2151 
PMID: 25882755  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. PLoS One. 2015 Apr 16;10(4):e0123420. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0123420.
eCollection 2015.

Digital detection of multiple minority mutants and expression levels of multiple 
colorectal cancer-related genes using digital-PCR coupled with bead-array.

Huang H(1), Li S(2), Sun L(1), Zhou G(3).

Author information: 
(1)The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, China.
(2)Nanjing Xiaozhuang University, Nanjing, China. (3)Jinling Hospital, Nanjing
University School of Medicine, Nanjing, China.

To simultaneously analyze mutations and expression levels of multiple genes on
one detection platform, we proposed a method termed "multiplex ligation-dependent
probe amplification-digital amplification coupled with hydrogel bead-array"
(MLPA-DABA) and applied it to diagnose colorectal cancer (CRC). CRC cells and
tissues were sampled to extract nucleic acid, perform MLPA with sequence-tagged
probes, perform digital emulsion polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and produce a
hydrogel bead-array to immobilize beads and form a single bead layer on the
array. After hybridization with fluorescent probes, the number of colored beads, 
which reflects the abundance of expressed genes and the mutation rate, was
counted for diagnosis. Only red or green beads occurred on the chips in the mixed
samples, indicating the success of single-molecule PCR. When a one-source sample 
was analyzed using mixed MLPA probes, beads of only one color occurred,
suggesting the high specificity of the method in analyzing CRC mutation and gene 
expression. In gene expression analysis of a CRC tissue from one CRC patient, the
mutant percentage was 3.1%, and the expression levels of CRC-related genes were
much higher than those of normal tissue. The highly sensitive MLPA-DABA succeeds 
in the relative quantification of mutations and gene expressions of exfoliated
cells in stool samples of CRC patients on the same chip platform. MLPA-DABA
coupled with hydrogel bead-array is a promising method in the non-invasive
diagnosis of CRC.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0123420 
PMCID: PMC4399940
PMID: 25880764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. PLoS One. 2015 Apr 14;10(4):e0124265. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0124265.
eCollection 2015.

Digital gene expression analysis of Microsporum canis exposed to berberine
chloride.

Xiao CW(1), Ji QA(1), Wei Q(1), Liu Y(1), Pan LJ(1), Bao GL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science, Zhejiang Academy of
Agricultural Sciences, Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, China.

Berberine, a natural isoquinoline alkaloid of many medicinal herbs, has an active
function against a variety of microbial infections including Microsporum canis
(M. canis). However, the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. To study
the effect of berberine chloride on M. canis infection, a Digital Gene Expression
(DGE) tag profiling was constructed and a transcriptome analysis of the M. canis 
cellular responses upon berberine treatment was performed. Illumina/Hisseq
sequencing technique was used to generate the data of gene expression profile,
and the following enrichment analysis of Gene Ontology (GO) and Pathway function 
were conducted based on the data of transcriptome. The results of DGE showed that
there were 8476945, 14256722, 7708575, 5669955, 6565513 and 9303468 tags
respectively, which was obtained from M. canis incubated with berberine or
control DMSO. 8,783 genes were totally mapped, and 1,890 genes have shown
significant changes between the two groups. 1,030 genes were up-regulated and 860
genes were down-regulated (P<0.05) in berberine treated group compared to the
control group. Besides, twenty-three GO terms were identified by Gene Ontology
functional enrichment analysis, such as calcium-transporting ATPase activity,
2-oxoglutarate metabolic process, valine catabolic process, peroxisome and
unfolded protein binding. Pathway significant enrichment analysis indicated 6
signaling pathways that are significant, including steroid biosynthesis, steroid 
hormone biosynthesis, Parkinson's disease, 2,4-Dichlorobenzoate degradation, and 
tropane, piperidine and Isoquinoline alkaloid biosynthesis. Among these, eleven
selected genes were further verified by qRT-PCR. Our findings provide a
comprehensive view on the gene expression profile of M. canis upon berberine
treatment, and shed light on its complicated effects on M. canis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0124265 
PMCID: PMC4397074
PMID: 25874937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Trials. 2015 Apr 10;16:147. doi: 10.1186/s13063-015-0651-z.

The role of pre-existing cross-reactive antibodies in determining the efficacy of
vaccination in humans: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.

Low JG(1), Wijaya L(2), Li GK(3), Lim EY(4), Shum AK(5), Cheung YB(6), Ooi EE(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Singapore General Hospital, 20 College
Road, Singapore, Singapore, 169856. jenny.low@sgh.com.sg. (2)Department of
Infectious Diseases, Singapore General Hospital, 20 College Road, Singapore,
Singapore, 169856. limin.wijaya@sgh.com.sg. (3)Singhealth Investigational
Medicine Unit, Singapore General Hospital, Outram Road, Singapore, Singapore,
169608. greg.li.k.y@singhealth.com.sg. (4)Department of Infectious Diseases,
Singapore General Hospital, 20 College Road, Singapore, Singapore, 169856.
eleanor.lim@mohh.com.sg. (5)Department of Infectious Diseases, Singapore General 
Hospital, 20 College Road, Singapore, Singapore, 169856.
koinlon.shum@mohh.com.sg. (6)Centre for Quantitative Medicine, Duke-NUS Graduate 
Medical School, 8 College Road, Singapore, Singapore, 169857.
yinbun.cheung@duke-nus.edu.sg. (7)Program in Emerging Infectious Diseases,
Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School, 8 College Road, Singapore, Singapore, 169857.
engeong.ooi@duke-nus.edu.sg.

BACKGROUND: Epidemic viral diseases have become more prevalent.. Among the
various strategies to prevent such epidemics, vaccination is the most
cost-effective. However, populations that are immunized are typically already
exposed to multiple previous vaccinations or natural infections. Studies from
this and other laboratories have revealed that pre-existing dengue antibodies can
either inhibit or enhance subsequent dengue infection depending on the
pre-existing antibody levels. While cross-reactive antibody is potentially
pathogenic in dengue, how it impacts immune response to vaccination is unclear.
Aggregated at the site of vaccination and the respective draining lymph nodes are
antigen-presenting and immune regulatory cells that express Fc receptors and play
pivotal roles in determining the magnitude and polarity of the immune response.
Vaccine uptake by these antigen-presenting cells may thus be either inhibited or 
enhanced when vaccines are opsonized with cross-reactive antibodies.
DESIGN: In view of the limited knowledge on how cross-reactive antibodies affect 
vaccination outcome, we propose a study that exploits the known cross reactivity 
between Japanese encephalitis (JE) virus antibody and yellow fever (YF) vaccine. 
We hypothesize that cross-reactive antibodies impact antibody response to YF at
the point vaccination in a concentration-dependent manner by altering both
vaccine uptake and the innate immune response by antigen presenting cells. We
will structure an open-label clinical trial on sequential vaccination with JE and
YF vaccines, with different time intervals between vaccinations. This would test 
immune response to YF vaccination in subjects with different titer of
cross-reactive JE vaccine-derived antibodies. The clinical materials obtained in 
the trial will drive basic laboratory investigations directed at elucidating how 
heterologous antibody affect vaccination at the molecular level. YF neutralizing 
antibody titer will be measured using plaque reduction neutralization test
against the vaccine strain YF17D. Innate immune response will be characterized
genetically using either microarray or digital PCR (or both). The innate immune
response will also be characterized at the protein and metabolite level using
Luminex bead technology and lipidomic/metabolomic approaches.
DISCUSSION: This proposed study represents one of the first to examine the role
of cross-reactive antibodies in modulating immune responses to vaccines, the
findings of which may re-shape vaccination strategy.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinical Trials.gov registration number: NCT01943305 (3
September 2013).

DOI: 10.1186/s13063-015-0651-z 
PMCID: PMC4404017
PMID: 25872531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Am J Ophthalmol. 2015 Jul;160(1):135-42.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2015.04.008. Epub 
2015 Apr 11.

Effects of Dry Eye Therapies on Environmentally Induced Ocular Surface Disease.

Moore QL(1), De Paiva CS(1), Pflugfelder SC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Ocular Surface Center, Cullen Eye Institute,
Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas. (2)Department of Ophthalmology,
Ocular Surface Center, Cullen Eye Institute, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston,
Texas. Electronic address: stevenp@bcm.edu.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effectiveness of artificial tears and corticosteroids on
mitigating the acute ocular surface response to low-humidity environments.
DESIGN: Single-group, crossover clinical trial.
METHODS: Twenty subjects with aqueous deficient dry eye were enrolled. Subjects
meeting inclusion criteria at visit 1 were exposed to a baseline 90-minute
low-humidity environment at visit 2. They then used artificial tears for 2 weeks 
prior to low-humidity exposure at visit 3, followed by 0.1% dexamethasone for 2
weeks prior to the final low-humidity exposure at visit 4. Outcome measures
included corneal and conjunctival staining, blink rate, and irritation symptoms
before and after each low-humidity exposure. Digital polymerase chain reaction
(PCR) was performed to measure HLA-DR RNA transcripts in conjunctival cells taken
by impression cytology at each visit.
RESULTS: There was significantly less corneal and conjunctival epitheliopathy
after the low-humidity exposure at visit 4 compared to after the low-humidity
exposure at visit 3 (P = .003). Subjects reported significantly less eye
irritation during the low-humidity exposure after using the dexamethasone (visit 
4) compared to artificial tears (visit 3) (P = .01). HLA-DR transcripts
significantly decreased after the stress at visit 4 (post dexamethasone) compared
to visit 2.
CONCLUSION: Our study demonstrates that corticosteroid eye drops mitigate the
acute adverse effects of an experimental low-humidity challenge, likely owing to 
suppression of stress-activated inflammatory pathways. While extended use of
corticosteroids is not indicated, other anti-inflammatory therapies with activity
against stress-activated pathways may prove as effective.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2015.04.008 
PMCID: PMC4464943
PMID: 25868759  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. PLoS One. 2015 Apr 10;10(4):e0123697. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0123697.
eCollection 2015.

Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptors are important to maintain
cerebrovascular reactivity in chronic hypertension.

Wang Z(1), Martorell BC(1), Wälchli T(2), Vogel O(1), Fischer J(3), Born W(3),
Vogel J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Veterinary Physiology, University of Zürich, Zürich, Switzerland.
(2)Group of CNS Angiogenesis and Neurovascular Link, and Physician-Scientist
Program, Swiss Center for Regenerative Medicine, University of Zürich, and
Divisions of Neurosurgery and Surgical Research, University Hospital of Zürich,
Zürich, Switzerland; Division of Neurosurgery and Laboratory of Molecular
Neurooncology, University Hospital Zürich, Zürich, Switzerland; Brain Research
Institute, University of Zürich, and Department of Health Sciences and
Technology, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) Zürich, Zürich,
Switzerland. (3)Research Laboratory for Calcium Metabolism, Orthopedic University
Hospital Zürich, University of Zürich, Zürich, Switzerland.

Cerebral blood flow autoregulation (CA) shifts to higher blood pressures in
chronic hypertensive patients, which increases their risk for brain damage.
Although cerebral vascular smooth muscle cells express the potent vasodilatatory 
peptides calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and adrenomedullin (AM) and their
receptors (calcitonin receptor-like receptor (Calclr), receptor-modifying
proteins (RAMP) 1 and 2), their contribution to CA during chronic hypertension is
poorly understood. Here we report that chronic (10 weeks) hypertensive
(one-kidney-one-clip-method) mice overexpressing the Calclr in smooth muscle
cells (CLR-tg), which increases the natural sensitivity of the brain vasculature 
to CGRP and AM show significantly better blood pressure drop-induced
cerebrovascular reactivity than wt controls. Compared to sham mice, this was
paralleled by increased cerebral CGRP-binding sites (receptor autoradiography),
significantly in CLR-tg but not wt mice. AM-binding sites remained unchanged.
Whereas hypertension did not alter RAMP-1 expression (droplet digital (dd) PCR)
in either mouse line, RAMP-2 expression dropped significantly in both mouse lines
by about 65%. Moreover, in wt only Calclr expression was reduced by about 70%
parallel to an increase of smooth muscle actin (Acta2) expression. Thus, chronic 
hypertension induces a stoichiometric shift between CGRP and AM receptors in
favor of the CGRP receptor. However, the parallel reduction of Calclr expression 
observed in wt mice but not CLR-tg mice appears to be a key mechanism in chronic 
hypertension impairing cerebrovascular reactivity.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0123697 
PMCID: PMC4393086
PMID: 25860809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Environ Sci Technol. 2015 May 5;49(9):5601-8. doi: 10.1021/acs.est.5b00253. Epub 
2015 Apr 20.

Droplet digital polymerase chain reaction (PCR) outperforms real-time PCR in the 
detection of environmental DNA from an invasive fish species.

Doi H(1), Takahara T(2), Minamoto T(3), Matsuhashi S(1), Uchii K(4), Yamanaka
H(5).

Author information: 
(1)†Institute for Sustainable Sciences and Development, Hiroshima University,
Higashi-Hiroshima 739-8530, Japan. (2)‡Graduate School of Integrated Arts and
Sciences, Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima 739-8521, Japan. (3)§Graduate
School of Human Development and Environment, Kobe University, Kobe 657-8501,
Japan. (4)∥Faculty of Pharmacy, Osaka Ohtani University, Tondabayashi 584-0066,
Japan. (5)⊥Department of Environmental Solution Technology, Faculty of Science
and Technology, Ryukoku University, Otsu 520-2194, Japan.

Environmental DNA (eDNA) has been used to investigate species distributions in
aquatic ecosystems. Most of these studies use real-time polymerase chain reaction
(PCR) to detect eDNA in water; however, PCR amplification is often inhibited by
the presence of organic and inorganic matter. In droplet digital PCR (ddPCR), the
sample is partitioned into thousands of nanoliter droplets, and PCR inhibition
may be reduced by the detection of the end-point of PCR amplification in each
droplet, independent of the amplification efficiency. In addition, real-time PCR 
reagents can affect PCR amplification and consequently alter detection rates. We 
compared the effectiveness of ddPCR and real-time PCR using two different PCR
reagents for the detection of the eDNA from invasive bluegill sunfish, Lepomis
macrochirus, in ponds. We found that ddPCR had higher detection rates of bluegill
eDNA in pond water than real-time PCR with either of the PCR reagents, especially
at low DNA concentrations. Limits of DNA detection, which were tested by spiking 
the bluegill DNA to DNA extracts from the ponds containing natural inhibitors,
found that ddPCR had higher detection rate than real-time PCR. Our results
suggest that ddPCR is more resistant to the presence of PCR inhibitors in field
samples than real-time PCR. Thus, ddPCR outperforms real-time PCR methods for
detecting eDNA to document species distributions in natural habitats, especially 
in habitats with high concentrations of PCR inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.5b00253 
PMID: 25850372  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. PLoS One. 2015 Apr 2;10(4):e0122220. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0122220.
eCollection 2015.

Focal experimental injury leads to widespread gene expression and histologic
changes in equine flexor tendons.

Jacobson E, Dart AJ(1), Mondori T(2), Horadogoda N(1), Jeffcott LB(1), Little
CB(2), Smith MM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Research and Clinical Training Unit, University Veterinary Teaching Hospital, 
University of Sydney, Camden, New South Wales, Australia. (2)Raymond Purves Bone 
and Joint Research Laboratories, Institute of Bone and Joint Research, Kolling
Institute of Medical Research (University of Sydney) at Royal North Shore
Hospital, St. Leonards, New South Wales, Australia.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2016;11(3):e0150823. Jacobsen, Else [corrected to Jacobson, Else].

It is not known how extensively a localised flexor tendon injury affects the
entire tendon. This study examined the extent of and relationship between
histopathologic and gene expression changes in equine superficial digital flexor 
tendon after a surgical injury. One forelimb tendon was hemi-transected in six
horses, and in three other horses, one tendon underwent a sham operation. After
euthanasia at six weeks, transected and control (sham and non-operated
contralateral) tendons were regionally sampled (medial and lateral halves each
divided into six 3 cm regions) for histologic (scoring and immunohistochemistry) 
and gene expression (real time PCR) analysis of extracellular matrix changes. The
histopathology score was significantly higher in transected tendons compared to
control tendons in all regions except for the most distal (P ≤ 0.03) with no
differences between overstressed (medial) and stress-deprived (lateral) tendon
halves. Proteoglycan scores were increased by transection in all but the most
proximal region (P < 0.02), with increased immunostaining for aggrecan, biglycan 
and versican. After correcting for location within the tendon, gene expression
for aggrecan, versican, biglycan, lumican, collagen types I, II and III, MMP14
and TIMP1 was increased in transected tendons compared with control tendons (P < 
0.02) and decreased for ADAMTS4, MMP3 and TIMP3 (P < 0.001). Aggrecan, biglycan, 
fibromodulin, and collagen types I and III expression positively correlated with 
all histopathology scores (P < 0.001), whereas lumican, ADAMTS4 and MMP14
expression positively correlated only with collagen fiber malalignment (P <
0.001). In summary, histologic and associated gene expression changes were
significant and widespread six weeks after injury to the equine SDFT, suggesting 
rapid and active development of tendinopathy throughout the entire length of the 
tendon. These extensive changes distant to the focal injury may contribute to
poor functional outcomes and re-injury in clinical cases. Our data suggest that
successful treatments of focal injuries will need to address pathology in the
entire tendon, and that better methods to monitor the development and resolution 
of tendinopathy are required.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0122220 
PMCID: PMC4383631
PMID: 25837713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Vet Res. 2015 Feb 24;46:11. doi: 10.1186/s13567-015-0144-9.

Experimentally induced lameness in turkeys inoculated with a newly emergent
turkey reovirus.

Sharafeldin TA, Mor SK, Bekele AZ, Verma H, Noll SL, Goyal SM, Porter RE.

Newly emergent turkey arthritis reoviruses (TARVs) have been isolated from cases 
of lameness in male turkeys over 10 weeks of age. In a previous study,
experimental inoculation of TARV in one-week-old turkey poults produced
lymphocytic tenosynovitis at four weeks post inoculation but without causing
clinical lameness. This study was undertaken to determine if TARV infection at an
early age can lead to clinical lameness in birds as they age. One-week-old male
turkeys were inoculated orally with a TARV (strain TARV-O'Neil) and monitored for
the development of gait defects until 16 weeks of age. At 4, 8, 12 and 16 weeks
of age, a subset of birds was euthanized followed by the collection of
gastrocnemius tendon, digital flexor tendon, and intestines for virus detection
by rRT-PCR and for histologic inflammation scoring. Clinical lameness was first
displayed in TARV-infected turkeys at 8 weeks of age and ruptured gastrocnemius
tendons with progressive lameness were also seen at 12-16 weeks of age. The virus
was detected in gastrocnemius tendon of 4- 8- and 12-week-old turkeys but not in 
16-week-old turkeys. Histologic inflammation scores of tendons at each of the
four time points were significantly higher in the virus-inoculated group than in 
the control group (p < 0.01). Lesions began as lymphocytic tenosynovitis with
mild synoviocyte hyperplasia at four weeks of age and progressed to fibrosis as
the birds aged. These results demonstrate the potential of TARV to infect young
turkeys and to produce subclinical tenosynovitis that becomes clinically
demonstrable as the turkeys age.

DOI: 10.1186/s13567-015-0144-9 
PMCID: PMC4337105
PMID: 25828424  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Clin Biochem. 2015 Oct;48(15):948-56. doi: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2015.03.015.
Epub 2015 Mar 28.

Digital PCR analysis of circulating nucleic acids.

Hudecova I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Research into Circulating Fetal Nucleic Acids, Li Ka Shing
Institute of Health Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, New
Territories, Hong Kong SAR, China; Department of Chemical Pathology, The Chinese 
University of Hong Kong, Prince of Wales Hospital, Shatin, New Territories, Hong 
Kong SAR, China. Electronic address: irena.hudecova@cuhk.edu.hk.

Detection of plasma circulating nucleic acids (CNAs) requires the use of
extremely sensitive and precise methods. The commonly used quantitative real-time
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) poses certain technical limitations in relation
to the precise measurement of CNAs whereas the costs of massively parallel
sequencing are still relatively high. Digital PCR (dPCR) now represents an
affordable and powerful single molecule counting strategy to detect minute
amounts of genetic material with performance surpassing many quantitative
methods. Microfluidic (chip) and emulsion (droplet)-based technologies have
already been integrated into platforms offering hundreds to millions of
nanoliter- or even picoliter-scale reaction partitions. The compelling
observations reported in the field of cancer research, prenatal testing,
transplantation medicine and virology support translation of this technology into
routine use. Extremely sensitive plasma detection of rare mutations originating
from tumor or placental cells among a large background of homologous sequences
facilitates unraveling of the early stages of cancer or the detection of fetal
mutations. Digital measurement of quantitative changes in plasma CNAs associated 
with cancer or graft rejection provides valuable information on the monitoring of
disease burden or the recipient's immune response and subsequent therapy
treatment. Furthermore, careful quantitative assessment of the viral load offers 
great value for effective monitoring of antiviral therapy for immunosuppressed or
transplant patients. The present review describes the inherent features of dPCR
that make it exceptionally robust in precise and sensitive quantification of
CNAs. Moreover, I provide an insight into the types of potential clinical
applications that have been developed by researchers to date.

Copyright © 2015 The Canadian Society of Clinical Chemists. Published by Elsevier
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2015.03.015 
PMID: 25828047  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. J Lab Autom. 2016 Jun;21(3):402-11. doi: 10.1177/2211068215579015. Epub 2015 Mar 
31.

Automated Microfluidic Platform for Serial Polymerase Chain Reaction and
High-Resolution Melting Analysis.

Cao W(1), Bean B(2), Corey S(3), Coursey JS(1), Hasson KC(1), Inoue H(4), Isano
T(1), Kanderian S(1), Lane B(3), Liang H(1), Murphy B(3), Owen G(1), Shinoda
N(4), Zeng S(1), Knight IT(5).

Author information: 
(1)Canon U.S. Life Sciences, Inc, Rockville, MD, USA. (2)Sobosoft LLC,
Catonsville, MD, USA. (3)Key Tech, Baltimore, MD, USA. (4)Canon U.S.A., Inc.,
Melville, NY, USA. (5)Canon U.S. Life Sciences, Inc, Rockville, MD, USA
Ivor.Knight@canon.uslifesciences.com.

We report the development of an automated genetic analyzer for human sample
testing based on microfluidic rapid polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with
high-resolution melting analysis (HRMA). The integrated DNA microfluidic
cartridge was used on a platform designed with a robotic pipettor system that
works by sequentially picking up different test solutions from a 384-well plate, 
mixing them in the tips, and delivering mixed fluids to the DNA cartridge. A
novel image feedback flow control system based on a Canon 5D Mark II digital
camera was developed for controlling fluid movement through a complex
microfluidic branching network without the use of valves. The same camera was
used for measuring the high-resolution melt curve of DNA amplicons that were
generated in the microfluidic chip. Owing to fast heating and cooling as well as 
sensitive temperature measurement in the microfluidic channels, the time frame
for PCR and HRMA was dramatically reduced from hours to minutes. Preliminary
testing results demonstrated that rapid serial PCR and HRMA are possible while
still achieving high data quality that is suitable for human sample testing.

© 2015 Society for Laboratory Automation and Screening.

DOI: 10.1177/2211068215579015 
PMID: 25827436 


757. Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 2015 May;176(2):428-39. doi: 10.1007/s12010-015-1585-3. 
Epub 2015 Apr 1.

Molecular Cloning, Expression Analysis, and Preliminarily Functional
Characterization of the Gene Encoding Protein Disulfide Isomerase from Jatropha
curcas.

Wang H(1), Zou Z, Gong M.

Author information: 
(1)Engineering Research Center of Sustainable Development and Utilization of
Biomass Energy, Ministry of Education, Key Laboratory of Biomass Energy and
Environmental Biotechnology of Yunnan Province, School of Life Sciences, Yunnan
Normal University, Kunming, 650500, China.

Reactive oxygen species (ROS) in plants, arising from various environmental
stresses, impair the thiol-contained proteins that are susceptible to irregular
oxidative formation of disulfide bonds, which might be alleviated by a relatively
specific modifier called protein disulfide isomerase (PDI). From our previous
data of the transcriptome and digital gene expression of cold-hardened Jatropha
curcas, a PDI gene was proposed to be cold-relevant. In this study, its
full-length cDNA (JcPDI) was cloned, with the size of 1649 bp containing the
entire open reading frame (ORF) of 1515 bp. This ORF encodes a polypeptide of 504
amino acids with theoretical molecular weight of 56.6 kDa and pI value of 4.85.
One N-terminal signal peptide (-MASKGSIWSCMFLFSLI VAISAGEG-) and the C-terminal
anchoring sequence motif (-KDEL-) specific to the endoplasmic reticulum, as well 
as two thioredoxin domains (-CGHC-), are also found by predictions. Through
semi-quantitative RT-PCR, the expression of JcPDI was characterized to be
tissue-differential strongly in leaves and roots, but weakly in stems, and of
cold-induced alternations. Furthermore, JcPDI overexpression in yeast could
notably enhance the cold resistance of host cells. Conclusively, these results
explicitly suggested a considerable association of JcPDI to cold response and a
putative application potential for its correlated genetic engineering.

DOI: 10.1007/s12010-015-1585-3 
PMID: 25825250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. J Pathol Clin Res. 2015 Feb 2;1(2):76-82. doi: 10.1002/cjp2.8. eCollection 2015.

Metachronous pancreatic cancer originating from disseminated founder pancreatic
intraductal neoplasias (PanINs).

Imai K(1), Karasaki H(2), Ono Y(2), Sasajima J(3), Chiba S(4), Funakoshi H(4),
Muraki M(5), Hanaoka H(5), Furukawa T(5), Furukawa H(1), Kono T(2), Nagashima
K(2), Mizukami Y(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery Asahikawa Medical University Asahikawa Japan.
(2)Laboratory of Clinical Bioinformatics Center for Clinical and Biomedical
Research, Sapporo Higashi Tokushukai Hospital Sapporo Japan. (3)Department of
Medicine Asahikawa Medical University Asahikawa Japan. (4)Center for Advanced
Research and Education, Asahikawa Medical University Asahikawa Japan. (5)Life
Technologies Japan Tokyo Japan. (6)Laboratory of Clinical BioinformaticsCenter
for Clinical and Biomedical Research, Sapporo Higashi Tokushukai
HospitalSapporoJapan; Center for Cancer Research, Massachusetts General Hospital 
and Harvard Medical SchoolBostonMA, USA.

Clonal populations originated from benign-looking 'founder cells' may spread
widely within pancreas instead of being localized in situ before frank pancreatic
ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) can be detected. Metachronous PDA is not common
event, and we here sought to define potent origin of multiple PDAs developed in a
woman using advanced genetics technologies. Curative resection of pancreatic head
tumour was performed; however, 'recurrent' lesions in the remnant pancreas were
found 3.5 years later and total pancreatectomy was subsequently performed. The
metachronous lesions were morphologically similar to the primary PDA. Using a
next-generation sequencing and digital PCR, all three PDAs were shown to possess 
rare somatic mutations in KRAS (p.T58I & p.Q61H). Curiously, identical KRAS
mutations were found in low-grade 'intraepithelial' lesions, which localized in
normal area of the pancreas and one of them possessed p53 mutation, which was
also found in the PDAs. The footprint of the tumour evolution marked by
mutational profiling supports a human correlate to the mouse models of
'dissemination' occurring at the earliest stages of pancreatic neoplasia.

DOI: 10.1002/cjp2.8 
PMCID: PMC4858137
PMID: 27499895 


759. Anal Chem. 2015 Apr 21;87(8):4134-43. doi: 10.1021/ac503169h. Epub 2015 Apr 7.

Hands-off preparation of monodisperse emulsion droplets using a
poly(dimethylsiloxane) microfluidic chip for droplet digital PCR.

Tanaka H(1), Yamamoto S(1), Nakamura A(1), Nakashoji Y(1), Okura N(1), Nakamoto
N(1), Tsukagoshi K(1), Hashimoto M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science, Faculty of Science
and Engineering, Doshisha University, Kyotanabe, Kyoto 610-0321, Japan.

A fully autonomous method of creating highly monodispersed emulsion droplets with
a low sample dead volume was realized using a degassed poly(dimethylsiloxane)
(PDMS) microfluidic chip possessing a simple T-junction channel geometry with two
inlet reservoirs for oil and water to be loaded and one outlet reservoir for the 
collection of generated droplets. Autonomous transport of oil and water phases in
the channel was executed by permeation of air confined inside the outlet
reservoir into the degassed PDMS. The only operation required for droplet
creation was simple pipetting of oil and aqueous solutions into the inlet
reservoirs. Long-lasting fluid transport in the current system enabled us to
create ca. 51,000 monodispersed droplets (with a coefficient of variation of <3% 
for the droplet diameter) in 80 min with a maximum droplet generation rate of ca.
12 Hz using a PDMS chip that had been degassed overnight. With multiple
time-course measurements, the reproducibility in the current method of droplet
preparation was confirmed, with tunable droplet sizes achieved simply by changing
the cross-sectional dimensions of the microchannel. Furthermore, it was verified 
that the resultant droplets could serve as microreactors for digital polymerase
chain reactions. This hands-free technique for preparing monodispersed droplets
in a very facile and inexpensive fashion is intended for, but not limited to,
bioanalytical applications and is also applicable to material syntheses.

DOI: 10.1021/ac503169h 
PMID: 25822401  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. PLoS One. 2015 Mar 25;10(3):e0118833. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0118833.
eCollection 2015.

Digital PCR modeling for maximal sensitivity, dynamic range and measurement
precision.

Majumdar N(1), Wessel T(1), Marks J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Thermo Fisher Scientific, South San Francisco, CA, 94080, United States of
America.

The great promise of digital PCR is the potential for unparalleled precision
enabling accurate measurements for genetic quantification. A challenge associated
with digital PCR experiments, when testing unknown samples, is to perform
experiments at dilutions allowing the detection of one or more targets of
interest at a desired level of precision. While theory states that optimal
precision (Po) is achieved by targeting ~1.59 mean copies per partition (λ), and 
that dynamic range (R) includes the space spanning one positive (λL) to one
negative (λU) result from the total number of partitions (n), these results are
tempered for the practitioner seeking to construct digital PCR experiments in the
laboratory. A mathematical framework is presented elucidating the relationships
between precision, dynamic range, number of partitions, interrogated volume, and 
sensitivity in digital PCR. The impact that false reaction calls and volumetric
variation have on sensitivity and precision is next considered. The resultant
effects on sensitivity and precision are established via Monte Carlo simulations 
reflecting the real-world likelihood of encountering such scenarios in the
laboratory. The simulations provide insight to the practitioner on how to adapt
experimental loading concentrations to counteract any one of these conditions.
The framework is augmented with a method of extending the dynamic range of
digital PCR, with and without increasing n, via the use of dilutions. An example 
experiment demonstrating the capabilities of the framework is presented enabling 
detection across 3.33 logs of starting copy concentration.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0118833 
PMCID: PMC4373789
PMID: 25806524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2014 Oct 4;54(10):1171-7.

[Sequence characterization and differential expression of a glutathione
S-transferase gene vv-gto1 from Volvariella volvacea].

[Article in Chinese]

Yan J, Guo L, Zhao J, Xie B.

OBJECTIVE: Based on the analysis of omics data of Volvariella volvacea, a gene
encoding glutathione S- transferase (GSTs) named vv-gtol was obtained. To reveal 
the role of GSTs in the growth and development in edible fungi, the structure,
the sequence characters and the expression profile of a GST gene vv-gto1 of
Volvariella volvacea were analyzed.
METHODS: ZOOM software was used to map sequencing read (reads) from genome and
transcriptome against the splicing sequence of genome, to confirm the complete
length and the accuracy of the gene sequence, and to visualize gene structure.
The MEGA 5.1 was used to do the multiple sequence alignment and phylogenetic tree
analysis. Real time fluorescent quantitative PCR was used to determine the
expression levels of vv-gtol at different growth periods of Volvariella volvacea.
RESULTS: The full sequence of vv-gtol covered 2083 bp, containing 11 exons and 10
introns, and encoded a protein with 356 amino acids. 5'UTR was 305 bp which
contains one intron region, and 3'UTR was 86bp. Two intron retentions could be
recognized during RNA processing, and the transcripts formed by the intron
retention could not translate the correct conservative functional domains. The
full-length of vv-gtol had more than 50 accurate positioning genome sequencing
reads, suggesting that genome sequencing and assembly results are accurate and
reliable. The phylogenetic tree showed that GTO1 of Volvariella volvacea belonged
to the subclass I of the Omega class of glutathione S-transferase superfamily,
and had the closest relationship with GTO1 and GTO2 in Phanerochaete
chrysosporium. The analysis of digital gene expression profiling, fluorescence
quantitative PCR and proteomics showed that vv-gtol had the highest expression
level in the heterokaryotic hyphae.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first time to obtain a gene encoding glutathione
S-transferase from Volvariella volvacea which belongs to Omega class. Our study
showed that the gene may play an important role during the special biological
functions of heterokaryotic hyphae. This study also suggested that Volvariella
volvacea heterokaryotic hyphae in H1521 had stronger resistance ability than
other samples. In addition, vv-gto1 could form different alternative splicesome
to regulate gene transcription and translation, and ultimately affect the
function of the protein.


PMID: 25803894  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. PLoS One. 2015 Mar 24;10(3):e0122203. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0122203.
eCollection 2015.

Characterisation of the small RNAs in the biomedically important green-bottle
blowfly Lucilia sericata.

Blenkiron C(1), Tsai P(2), Brown LA(3), Tintinger V(4), Askelund KJ(3), Windsor
JA(5), Phillips AR(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine and Pathology, Faculty of Medical and Health 
Sciences, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand; Department of Surgery,
Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, University of Auckland, Auckland, New
Zealand; Maurice Wilkins Centre for Biodiscovery, University of Auckland,
Auckland, New Zealand. (2)Bioinformatics Institute, University of Auckland,
Auckland, New Zealand. (3)Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medical and Health
Sciences, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand. (4)Department of
Anthropology, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand. (5)Department of
Surgery, Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, University of Auckland,
Auckland, New Zealand; Maurice Wilkins Centre for Biodiscovery, University of
Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand. (6)Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medical and
Health Sciences, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand; Maurice Wilkins
Centre for Biodiscovery, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand; School of
Biological Sciences, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.

BACKGROUND: The green bottle fly maggot, Lucilia sericata, is a species with
importance in medicine, agriculture and forensics. Improved understanding of this
species' biology is of great potential benefit to many research communities.
MicroRNAs (miRNA) are a short non-protein coding regulatory RNA, which directly
regulate a host of protein coding genes at the translational level. They have
been shown to have developmental and tissue specific distributions where they
impact directly on gene regulation. In order to improve understanding of the
biology of L. sericata maggots we have performed small RNA-sequencing of their
secretions and tissue at different developmental stages.
RESULTS: We have successfully isolated RNA from the secretions of L. sericata
maggots. Illumina small RNA-sequencing of these secretions and the three tissues 
(crop, salivary gland, gut) revealed that the most common small RNA fragments
were derived from ribosomal RNA and transfer RNAs of both insect and bacterial
origins. These RNA fragments were highly specific, with the most common tRNAs,
such as GlyGCC, predominantly represented by reads derived from the 5' end of the
mature maggot tRNA. Each library also had a unique profile of miRNAs with a high 
abundance of miR-10-5p in the maggot secretions and gut and miR-8 in the food
storage organ the crop and salivary glands. The pattern of small RNAs in the
bioactive maggot secretions suggests they originate from a combination of saliva,
foregut and hindgut tissues. Droplet digital RT-PCR validation of the
RNA-sequencing data shows that not only are there differences in the tissue
profiles for miRNAs and small RNA fragments but that these are also modulated
through developmental stages of the insect.
CONCLUSIONS: We have identified the small-RNAome of the medicinal maggots L.
sericata and shown that there are distinct subsets of miRNAs expressed in
specific tissues that also alter during the development of the insect.
Furthermore there are very specific RNA fragments derived from other non-coding
RNAs present in tissues and in the secretions. This new knowledge has
applicability in diverse research fields including wound healing, agriculture and
forensics.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0122203 
PMCID: PMC4372549
PMID: 25803701  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. PLoS One. 2015 Mar 23;10(3):e0122763. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0122763.
eCollection 2015.

Use of droplet digital PCR for estimation of fish abundance and biomass in
environmental DNA surveys.

Doi H(1), Uchii K(2), Takahara T(3), Matsuhashi S(1), Yamanaka H(4), Minamoto
T(5).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Sustainable Sciences and Development, Hiroshima University,
Higashi-Hiroshima, Japan. (2)Institute for Sustainable Sciences and Development, 
Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima, Japan; Faculty of Pharmacy, Osaka Ohtani
University, Tondabayashi, Japan. (3)Graduate School of Integrated Arts and
Sciences, Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima, Japan. (4)Department of
Environmental Solution Technology, Faculty of Science and Technology, Ryukoku
University, Otsu, Japan. (5)Graduate School of Human Development and Environment,
Kobe University, Kobe, Japan.

An environmental DNA (eDNA) analysis method has been recently developed to
estimate the distribution of aquatic animals by quantifying the number of target 
DNA copies with quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR). A new quantitative PCR
technology, droplet digital PCR (ddPCR), partitions PCR reactions into thousands 
of droplets and detects the amplification in each droplet, thereby allowing
direct quantification of target DNA. We evaluated the quantification accuracy of 
qPCR and ddPCR to estimate species abundance and biomass by using eDNA in
mesocosm experiments involving different numbers of common carp. We found that
ddPCR quantified the concentration of carp eDNA along with carp abundance and
biomass more accurately than qPCR, especially at low eDNA concentrations. In
addition, errors in the analysis were smaller in ddPCR than in qPCR. Thus, ddPCR 
is better suited to measure eDNA concentration in water, and it provides more
accurate results for the abundance and biomass of the target species than qPCR.
We also found that the relationship between carp abundance and eDNA concentration
was stronger than that between biomass and eDNA by using both ddPCR and qPCR;
this suggests that abundance can be better estimated by the analysis of eDNA for 
species with fewer variations in body mass.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0122763 
PMCID: PMC4370432
PMID: 25799582  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. PLoS One. 2015 Mar 23;10(3):e0121164. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0121164.
eCollection 2015.

Comparative transcriptome analysis of genes involved in anthocyanin biosynthesis 
in the red and yellow fruits of sweet cherry (Prunus avium L.).

Wei H(1), Chen X(2), Zong X(2), Shu H(3), Gao D(3), Liu Q(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Horticulture Science and Engineering, Shandong Agricultural
University, Tai'an, Shandong 271018, China; Key Laboratory for Fruit
Biotechnology Breeding of Shandong, Shandong Institute of Pomology, Shandong
Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Tai'an, Shandong 271000, China. (2)Key
Laboratory for Fruit Biotechnology Breeding of Shandong, Shandong Institute of
Pomology, Shandong Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Tai'an, Shandong 271000,
China. (3)College of Horticulture Science and Engineering, Shandong Agricultural 
University, Tai'an, Shandong 271018, China.

BACKGROUND: Fruit color is one of the most important economic traits of the sweet
cherry (Prunus avium L.). The red coloration of sweet cherry fruit is mainly
attributed to anthocyanins. However, limited information is available regarding
the molecular mechanisms underlying anthocyanin biosynthesis and its regulation
in sweet cherry.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: In this study, a reference transcriptome of P.
avium L. was sequenced and annotated to identify the transcriptional determinants
of fruit color. Normalized cDNA libraries from red and yellow fruits were
sequenced using the next-generation Illumina/Solexa sequencing platform and de
novo assembly. Over 66 million high-quality reads were assembled into 43,128
unigenes using a combined assembly strategy. Then a total of 22,452 unigenes were
compared to public databases using homology searches, and 20,095 of these
unigenes were annotated in the Nr protein database. Furthermore, transcriptome
differences between the four stages of fruit ripening were analyzed using
Illumina digital gene expression (DGE) profiling. Biological pathway analysis
revealed that 72 unigenes were involved in anthocyanin biosynthesis. The
expression patterns of unigenes encoding phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL),
4-coumarate-CoA ligase (4CL), chalcone synthase (CHS), chalcone isomerase (CHI), 
flavanone 3-hydroxylase (F3H), flavanone 3'-hydroxylase (F3'H), dihydroflavonol
4-reductase (DFR), anthocyanidin synthase (ANS) and UDP glucose: flavonol
3-O-glucosyltransferase (UFGT) during fruit ripening differed between red and
yellow fruit. In addition, we identified some transcription factor families (such
as MYB, bHLH and WD40) that may control anthocyanin biosynthesis. We confirmed
the altered expression levels of eighteen unigenes that encode anthocyanin
biosynthetic enzymes and transcription factors using quantitative real-time PCR
(qRT-PCR).
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: The obtained sweet cherry transcriptome and DGE
profiling data provide comprehensive gene expression information that lends
insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying anthocyanin biosynthesis. These
results will provide a platform for further functional genomic research on this
fruit crop.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0121164 
PMCID: PMC4370391
PMID: 25799516  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Exp Hematol. 2015 Jun;43(6):462-8.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.exphem.2015.02.006. Epub
2015 Mar 18.

Digital PCR to assess hematopoietic chimerism after allogeneic stem cell
transplantation.

Stahl T(1), Böhme MU(2), Kröger N(1), Fehse B(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Stem Cell Transplantation, University Medical Centre
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany. (2)R&D Department, Biotype Diagnostic GmbH, 
Dresden, Germany. (3)Department of Stem Cell Transplantation, University Medical 
Centre Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany. Electronic address: fehse@uke.de.

Analysis of hematopoietic chimerism after allogeneic stem cell transplantation
represents a crucial method to evaluate donor-cell engraftment. Whereas
sensitivity of classical approaches for chimerism monitoring is limited to ≥1%,
quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR)-based techniques readily detect one
patient cell in >1,000 donor cells, thus facilitating application of chimerism
assessment as a surrogate for minimal residual disease. However, due to
methodologic specificities, qPCR combines its high sensitivity with limited
resolution power in the state of mixed chimerism (e.g., >10% patient cells). Our 
aim was to overcome this limitation by employing a further development of qPCR,
namely digital PCR (dPCR), for chimerism analysis. For proof-of-principle, we
established more than 10 dPCR assays detecting Indel polymorphisms or
Y-chromosome sequences and tested them on artificial cell mixtures and patient
samples. Employing artificial cell mixtures, we found that dPCR allows exact
quantification of chimerism over several orders of magnitude. Digital PCR results
proved to be highly reproducible (deviation <5%), particularly in the "difficult"
range of mixed chimerism. Excellent performance of the new assays was confirmed
by analysis of multiple retrospective blood samples from patients after
allogeneic stem cell transplantation, in comparison with established qPCR (14
patients) and short-tandem repeat PCR (4 patients) techniques. Finally, dPCR is
easy to perform, needs only small amounts of DNA for chimerism assessment (65 ng 
corresponds to a sensitivity of approximately 0.03%), and does not require the
use of standard curves and replicate analysis. In conclusion, dPCR represents a
very promising method for routine chimerism monitoring.

Copyright © 2015 ISEH - International Society for Experimental Hematology.
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exphem.2015.02.006 
PMID: 25795523  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. PLoS One. 2015 Mar 19;10(3):e0118558. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0118558.
eCollection 2015.

Transcriptomic analysis of American ginseng seeds during the dormancy release
process by RNA-Seq.

Qi J(1), Sun P(1), Liao D(1), Sun T(1), Zhu J(1), Li X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medicinal Plants Development, Peking Union Medical College,
Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing, People's Republic of China.

American ginseng (Panax quinquefolius L.) is an important herb that is cultivated
in China, North American, and South Korea. It is propagated from seed, but the
seed has deep dormancy characteristics described as morphophysiological dormancy.
Two-stage temperature stratification, a warm (15-20°C) and cold (2°C)
stratification period of 6 months, has been used successfully for seed dormancy
release. However, little is known about the molecular mechanisms of seed dormancy
release in the stratification process. In this study, seed development after
pollination and seed development in the dormancy release process were
investigated in American ginseng. The transcriptome during seed dormancy release 
was analyzed using RNA-Seq technology and 78,207 unigenes (mean length 531 bp)
were generated. Based on similarity searches of public databases, 54,292 of the
unigenes (69.4%) were functionally annotated. Further, three digital gene
expression (DGE) libraries were sequenced and differences in gene expression at
three stages during seed cold stratification were examined. The greatest number
of differentially expressed genes occurred in the 90DCS versus 180DCS libraries, 
while the lowest number of differentially expressed genes occurred in the 135DCS 
verus 180DCS libraries. GO enrichment analysis revealed that 59, 29, and 39 GO
terms were significantly enriched in the biological process, molecular function, 
and cell component GO categories, respectively. There were 25,190 genes with KEGG
pathway annotation in the three DGE libraries and their enrichment pathways were 
compared. The gene expressions of 30 selected unigenes were validated using
quantitative PCR. This study is the first to provide the transcriptome sequences 
for seed dormancy release in American ginseng, and demonstrates the successful
use of DGE profiling data for analyzing transcriptomic variation during dormancy 
release. These data provide a basis for future researches of seed dormancy in
morphophysiological dormancy seeds in non-model plants.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0118558 
PMCID: PMC4366157
PMID: 25790114  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. J Clin Microbiol. 2015 Jun;53(6):1935-7. doi: 10.1128/JCM.03586-14. Epub 2015 Mar
18.

Treponemes detected in digital dermatitis lesions in Brazilian dairy cattle and
possible host reservoirs of infection.

Nascimento LV(1), Mauerwerk MT(1), Dos Santos CL(2), Barros Filho IR(3), Birgel
Júnior EH(4), Sotomaior CS(1), Madeira HM(1), Ollhoff RD(5).

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciência Animal, Pontifícia Universidade Católica 
do Paraná, São José dos Pinhais, Brazil. (2)Curso de Medicina Veterinária,
Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Paraná, São José dos Pinhais, Brazil.
(3)Universidade Federal do Paraná, Curitiba, Brazil. (4)Universidade de São
Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil. (5)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciência Animal,
Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Paraná, São José dos Pinhais, Brazil
ollhoff@gmail.com.

The main pathogenic treponemes causing bovine digital dermatitis were identified 
from 17 infected herds in southern Brazil for the first time in this study using 
PCR. We did not find a relationship between treponeme phylogroup composition and 
clinical classification. Treponema phagedenis was present in all lesions. Rumen
fluid was implicated as a reservoir location for these pathogens.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.03586-14 
PMCID: PMC4432058
PMID: 25788552  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Int J Mol Sci. 2015 Mar 13;16(3):5975-89. doi: 10.3390/ijms16035975.

RNA-Seq transcriptome analysis of maize inbred carrying nicosulfuron-tolerant and
nicosulfuron-susceptible alleles.

Liu X(1), Xu X(2), Li B(3), Wang X(4), Wang G(5), Li M(6).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cereal and Oil Crops, Hebei Academy of Agriculture and Forestry
Sciences, Shijiazhuang 050035, Hebei, China. xiaominliu1981@gmail.com.
(2)Institute of Cereal and Oil Crops, Hebei Academy of Agriculture and Forestry
Sciences, Shijiazhuang 050035, Hebei, China. xianxu@hotmail.com. (3)Institute of 
Cereal and Oil Crops, Hebei Academy of Agriculture and Forestry Sciences,
Shijiazhuang 050035, Hebei, China. binghuali@163.com. (4)Institute of Cereal and 
Oil Crops, Hebei Academy of Agriculture and Forestry Sciences, Shijiazhuang
050035, Hebei, China. xueqingwang@126.com. (5)Institute of Cereal and Oil Crops, 
Hebei Academy of Agriculture and Forestry Sciences, Shijiazhuang 050035, Hebei,
China. guiqiwang@gmail.com. (6)Institute of Cereal and Oil Crops, Hebei Academy
of Agriculture and Forestry Sciences, Shijiazhuang 050035, Hebei, China.
moranli@163.com.

Postemergence applications of nicosulfuron can cause great damage to certain
maize inbred lines and hybrids. Variation among different responses to
nicosulfuron may be attributed to differential rates of herbicide metabolism. We 
employed RNA-Seq analysis to compare transcriptome responses between
nicosulfuron-treated and untreated in both tolerant and susceptible maize plants.
A total of 71.8 million paired end Illumina RNA-Seq reads were generated,
representing the transcription of around 40,441 unique reads. About 345,171 gene 
ontology (GO) term assignments were conducted for the annotation in terms of
biological process, cellular component and molecular function categories, and
6413 sequences with 108 enzyme commission numbers were assigned to 134 predicted 
Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) metabolic pathways. Digital gene
expression profile (DGE) analysis using Solexa sequencing was performed within
the susceptible and tolerant maize between the nicosulfuron-treated and untreated
conditions, 13 genes were selected as the candidates most likely involved in
herbicide metabolism, and quantitative RT-PCR validated the RNA-Seq results for
eight genes. This transcriptome data may provide opportunities for the study of
sulfonylurea herbicides susceptibility emergence of Zea mays.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms16035975 
PMCID: PMC4394515
PMID: 25782159  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Exp Ther Med. 2015 Apr;9(4):1383-1388. Epub 2015 Jan 27.

Comparison of droplet digital PCR and conventional quantitative PCR for measuring
EGFR gene mutation.

Zhang BO(1), Xu CW(1), Shao Y(1), Wang HT(1), Wu YF(1), Song YY(1), Li XB(1),
Zhang Z(2), Wang WJ(2), Li LQ(2), Cai CL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Affiliated Hospital of Academy of Military Medical
Sciences, Beijing 100071, P.R. China. (2)Wuhan YZY Medical Science and Technology
Co., Ltd., Wuhan, Hubei 430075, P.R. China.

Early detection of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation, particularly
EGFR T790M mutation, is of clinical significance. The aim of the present study
was to compare the performances of amplification refractory mutation system-based
quantitative polymerase chain reaction (ARMS-qPCR) and droplet digital polymerase
chain reaction (ddPCR) approaches in the detection of EGFR mutation and explore
the feasibility of using ddPCR in the detection of samples with low mutation
rates. EGFR gene mutations in plasmid samples with different T790M mutation rates
(0.1-5%) and 10 clinical samples were detected using the ARMS-qPCR and ddPCR
approaches. The results demonstrated that the ARMS-qPCR method stably detected
the plasmid samples (6,000 copies) with 5 and 1% mutation rates, while the ddPCR 
approach reliably detected those with 5% (398 copies), 1% (57 copies), 0.5% (24
copies) and 0.1% (average 6 copies) mutation rates. For the 10 clinical samples, 
the results for nine samples by the ARMS-qPCR and ddPCR methods were consistent; 
however, the sample N006, indicated to be EGFR wild-type by ARMS-qPCR, was
revealed to have a clear EGFR T790M mutation with seven copies of mutant alleles 
in a background of 6,000 wild-type copies using ddPCR technology. This study
demonstrates the feasibility of applying the ddPCR system to detect EGFR mutation
and identified the advantage of ddPCR in the detection of samples with a low EGFR
mutation abundance, particularly the secondary EGFR T790M resistance mutation,
which enables early diagnosis before acquired resistance to tyrosine kinase
inhibitors becomes clinically detectable.

DOI: 10.3892/etm.2015.2221 
PMCID: PMC4353752
PMID: 25780439 


770. J Mol Diagn. 2015 May;17(3):284-92. doi: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2014.12.003. Epub 2015 
Mar 13.

Enhanced ratio of signals enables digital mutation scanning for rare allele
detection.

Castellanos-Rizaldos E(1), Paweletz C(2), Song C(1), Oxnard GR(3), Mamon H(4),
Jänne PA(5), Makrigiorgos GM(6).

Author information: 
(1)Division of DNA Repair and Genome Stability, Department of Radiation Oncology,
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts; Belfer Institute for Applied Cancer Science,
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts; Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts. (4)Department of
Radiation Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute/Brigham and Women's Hospital
Cancer Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts. (5)Department of
Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts; Belfer Institute for Applied Cancer Science, Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts; Department of Medicine,
Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.
(6)Division of DNA Repair and Genome Stability, Department of Radiation Oncology,
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts;
Department of Radiation Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute/Brigham and
Women's Hospital Cancer Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.
Electronic address: mmakrigiorgos@lroc.harvard.edu.

The use of droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) for low-level DNA mutation detection in
cancer, prenatal diagnosis, and infectious diseases is growing rapidly. However, 
although ddPCR has been implemented successfully for detection of rare mutations 
at pre-determined positions, no ddPCR adaptation for mutation scanning exists.
Yet, frequently, clinically relevant mutations reside on multiple sequence
positions in tumor suppressor genes or complex hotspot mutations in oncogenes.
Here, we describe a combination of coamplification at lower denaturation
temperature PCR (COLD-PCR) with ddPCR that enables digital mutation scanning
within approximately 50-bp sections of a target amplicon. Two FAM/HEX-labeled
hydrolysis probes matching the wild-type sequence are used during ddPCR. The
ratio of FAM/HEX-positive droplets is constant when wild-type amplicons are
amplified but deviates when mutations anywhere under the FAM or HEX probes are
present. To enhance the change in FAM/HEX ratio, we employed COLD-PCR cycling
conditions that enrich mutation-containing amplicons anywhere on the sequence. We
validated COLD-ddPCR on multiple mutations in TP53 and in EGFR using serial
mutation dilutions and cell-free circulating DNA samples, and demonstrate
detection down to approximately 0.2% to 1.2% mutation abundance. COLD-ddPCR
enables a simple, rapid, and robust two-fluorophore detection method for the
identification of multiple mutations during ddPCR and potentially can identify
unknown DNA variants present in the target sequence.

Copyright © 2015 American Society for Investigative Pathology and the Association
for Molecular Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2014.12.003 
PMCID: PMC4411249
PMID: 25772705  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. J Mol Diagn. 2015 May;17(3):265-72. doi: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2015.01.004. Epub 2015 
Mar 11.

Highly Sensitive Droplet Digital PCR Method for Detection of EGFR-Activating
Mutations in Plasma Cell-Free DNA from Patients with Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung
Cancer.

Zhu G(1), Ye X(2), Dong Z(2), Lu YC(2), Sun Y(2), Liu Y(3), McCormack R(4), Gu
Y(2), Liu X(5).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Science, Asia & Emerging Markets Innovative Medicine,
AstraZeneca R&D, Shanghai, China. Electronic address: mike.zhu@amoydx.com.
(2)Translational Science, Asia & Emerging Markets Innovative Medicine,
AstraZeneca R&D, Shanghai, China. (3)Affiliated Hospital of Academy of Military
Medical Science, Beijing, China. (4)Global Medicine Development, AstraZeneca R&D,
Cheshire, United Kingdom. (5)Affiliated Hospital of Academy of Military Medical
Science, Beijing, China. Electronic address: liuxq@medmail.com.cn.

Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation testing in plasma cell-free DNA 
from lung cancer patients is an emerging clinical tool. However, compared with
tissue testing, the sensitivity of plasma testing is not yet satisfactory because
of the highly fragmented nature of plasma cell-free DNA, low fraction of tumor
DNA, and limitations of available detection technologies. We therefore developed 
a highly sensitive and specific droplet digital PCR method for plasma EGFR
mutation (exon19 deletions and L858R) testing. Plasma from 86 EGFR-tyrosine
kinase inhibitor-naive lung cancer patients was tested and compared with EGFR
mutation status of matched tumor tissues tested by amplification refractory
mutation system. By using EGFR mutation-positive cell DNA, we optimized the
droplet digital PCR assays to reach 0.04% sensitivity. The plasma testing
sensitivity and specificity, compared with the matched tumor tissues tested by
amplification refractory mutation system, were 81.82% (95% CI, 59.72%-94.81%) and
98.44% (95% CI, 91.60%-99.96%), respectively, for exon19 deletions, with 94.19%
concordance rate (κ = 0.840; 95% CI, 0.704-0.976; P < 0.0001), whereas they were 
80.00% (95% CI, 51.91%-95.67%) and 95.77% (95% CI, 88.14%-99.12%), respectively, 
for L858R, with 93.02% concordance rate (κ = 0.758; 95% CI, 0.571-0.945;
P < 0.0001). The reported highly sensitive and specific droplet digital PCR
assays for EGFR mutation detection have potential in clinical blood testing.

Copyright © 2015 American Society for Investigative Pathology and the Association
for Molecular Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2015.01.004 
PMID: 25769900  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. J Clin Virol. 2015 Apr;65:83-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jcv.2015.02.008. Epub 2015 Feb 10.

Head-to-head comparison of the diagnostic accuracies of BD Veritor™ System RSV
and Quidel® Sofia® RSV FIA systems for respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)
diagnosis.

Kanwar N(1), Hassan F(2), Nguyen A(1), Selvarangan R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Children's Mercy Hospital and
Clinics, Kansas City, MO 64108, USA. (2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory
Medicine, Children's Mercy Hospital and Clinics, Kansas City, MO 64108, USA;
University of Missouri, School of Medicine, Kansas City, MO 64108, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Children's Mercy Hospital and
Clinics, Kansas City, MO 64108, USA; University of Missouri, School of Medicine, 
Kansas City, MO 64108, USA. Electronic address: rselvarangan@cmh.edu.

BACKGROUND: Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is one of the most common causes of
severe lower respiratory tract disease among infants and young children. BD
Veritor™ System RSV (BD) and Quidel(®) Sofia(®) RSV FIA (QD) are the new
generation lateral flow digital immunoassay (DIA) tests with an instrumented read
for the qualitative detection of RSV viral antigens.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the diagnostic accuracies of BD and QD for RSV detection
using fresh nasopharyngeal aspirates and nasopharyngeal swab specimens collected 
in universal transport media during 2013-2014 respiratory season.
STUDY DESIGN: The two DIA tests were performed simultaneously on randomly
selected specimens on a weekly basis during the RSV season until 200 fresh
remnant specimens were enrolled. Real-time RT-PCR assay results were used to
compare and evaluate the performance of both RSV DIA assays.
RESULTS: Among 200 specimens tested, RSV real-time RT-PCR assay detected RSV in
104 samples, while QD detected 84 samples and BD detected 74 samples as positive.
The overall sensitivity for detection of RSV in comparison to PCR was 71.15%
(61.3-79.4) for BD and 80.77% (71.6-87.6) for QD system (P=0.36). The specificity
was 100% (95.2-100) for both systems. The work flow analysis revealed that the
overall specimen processing time was significantly lower for BD as compared with 
the QD assay.
CONCLUSIONS: In comparison with the real-time PCR, the QD system showed a higher 
sensitivity than that of the BD system, but the difference did not reach
statistical significance (P=0.36). Both BD and QD systems were found comparable
in terms of specificity.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcv.2015.02.008 
PMID: 25766995  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. PLoS One. 2015 Mar 12;10(3):e0116371. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0116371.
eCollection 2015.

Digital PCR validates 8q dosage as prognostic tool in uveal melanoma.

Versluis M(1), de Lange MJ(1), van Pelt SI(1), Ruivenkamp CA(2), Kroes WG(2), Cao
J(3), Jager MJ(1), Luyten GP(1), van der Velden PA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The
Netherlands. (2)Department of Clinical Genetics, Laboratory for Diagnostic Genome
Analysis (LDGA), Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The
Netherlands; Department of Ophthalmology, The Second Hospital of Jilin
University, Changchun, China.

BACKGROUND: Uveal melanoma (UM) development and progression is correlated with
specific molecular changes. Recurrent mutations in GNAQ and GNA11 initiate UM
development while tumour progression is correlated with monosomy of chromosome 3 
and gain of chromosome 8q. Hence, molecular analysis of UM is useful for
diagnosis and prognosis. The aim of this study is to evaluate the use of digital 
PCR (dPCR) for molecular analysis of UM.
METHODS: A series of 66 UM was analysed with dPCR for three hotspot mutations in 
GNAQ/GNA11 with mutation specific probes. The status of chromosomes 3 and 8 were 
analysed with genomic probes. The results of dPCR analysis were cross-validated
with Sanger sequencing, SNP array analysis, and karyotyping.
RESULTS: Using dPCR, we were able to reconstitute the molecular profile of 66
enucleated UM. With digital PCR, GNAQ/GNA11 mutations were detected in 60 of the 
66 UM. Sanger sequencing revealed three rare variants, and, combined, these
assays revealed GNAQ/GNA11 mutations in 95% of UM. Monosomy 3 was present in 43
and chromosome 8 aberrations in 52 of the 66 UM. Survival analysis showed that
increasing 8q copy numbers were positively correlated with metastasis risk.
CONCLUSION: Molecular analysis with dPCR is fast and sensitive. Just like the
recurrent genomic aberrations of chromosome 3 and 8, hotspot mutations in GNAQ
and GNA11 are effectively detected in heterogeneous samples. Increased
sensitivity contributes to the number of mutations and chromosomal aberrations
detected. Moreover, quantification of copy number with dPCR validated 8q dosage
as a sensitive prognostic tool in UM, of which implementation in disease
prediction models will further improve prognostication.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0116371 
PMCID: PMC4357379
PMID: 25764247  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. BMC Genomics. 2015 Feb 13;16:67. doi: 10.1186/s12864-015-1293-y.

Genome-wide survey and expression analysis of F-box genes in chickpea.

Gupta S(1), Garg V(2), Kant C(3), Bhatia S(4).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Plant Genome Research, Aruna Asaf Ali Marg, Post Box No.
10531, New Delhi, 110067, India. shefaligupta.14@gmail.com. (2)National Institute
of Plant Genome Research, Aruna Asaf Ali Marg, Post Box No. 10531, New Delhi,
110067, India. vanikag1@gmail.com. (3)National Institute of Plant Genome
Research, Aruna Asaf Ali Marg, Post Box No. 10531, New Delhi, 110067, India.
chandrakant@nipgr.ac.in. (4)National Institute of Plant Genome Research, Aruna
Asaf Ali Marg, Post Box No. 10531, New Delhi, 110067, India.
sabhyatabhatia@nipgr.ac.in.

BACKGROUND: The F-box genes constitute one of the largest gene families in plants
involved in degradation of cellular proteins. F-box proteins can recognize a wide
array of substrates and regulate many important biological processes such as
embryogenesis, floral development, plant growth and development, biotic and
abiotic stress, hormonal responses and senescence, among others. However, little 
is known about the F-box genes in the important legume crop, chickpea. The
available draft genome sequence of chickpea allowed us to conduct a genome-wide
survey of the F-box gene family in chickpea.
RESULTS: A total of 285 F-box genes were identified in chickpea which were
classified based on their C-terminal domain structures into 10 subfamilies.
Thirteen putative novel motifs were also identified in F-box proteins with no
known functional domain at their C-termini. The F-box genes were physically
mapped on the 8 chickpea chromosomes and duplication events were investigated
which revealed that the F-box gene family expanded largely due to tandem
duplications. Phylogenetic analysis classified the chickpea F-box genes into 9
clusters. Also, maximum syntenic relationship was observed with soybean followed 
by Medicago truncatula, Lotus japonicus and Arabidopsis. Digital expression
analysis of F-box genes in various chickpea tissues as well as under abiotic
stress conditions utilizing the available chickpea transcriptome data revealed
differential expression patterns with several F-box genes specifically expressing
in each tissue, few of which were validated by using quantitative real-time PCR.
CONCLUSIONS: The genome-wide analysis of chickpea F-box genes provides new
opportunities for characterization of candidate F-box genes and elucidation of
their function in growth, development and stress responses for utilization in
chickpea improvement.

DOI: 10.1186/s12864-015-1293-y 
PMCID: PMC4340835
PMID: 25759239  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Genome. 2014 Oct;57(10):537-45. doi: 10.1139/gen-2014-0164. Epub 2015 Jan 30.

Identification of genes associated with low furanocoumarin content in grapefruit.

Chen C(1), Yu Q, Wei X, Cancalon PF, Gmitter FG Jr.

Author information: 
(1)University of Florida, Citrus Research and Education Center, 700 Experiment
Station Road, Lake Alfred, FL 33850, USA., United States Department of
Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, Southeastern Fruit and Tree Nut
Research Laboratory, 21 Dunbar Road, Byron, GA 31008, USA.

Some furanocoumarins in grapefruit (Citrus paradisi) are associated with the
so-called grapefruit juice effect. Previous phytochemical quantification and
genetic analysis suggested that the synthesis of these furanocoumarins may be
controlled by a single gene in the pathway. In this study, cDNA-amplified
fragment length polymorphism (cDNA-AFLP) analysis of fruit tissues was performed 
to identify the candidate gene(s) likely associated with low furanocoumarin
content in grapefruit. Fifteen tentative differentially expressed fragments were 
cloned through the cDNA-AFLP analysis of the grapefruit variety Foster and its
spontaneous low-furanocoumarin mutant Low Acid Foster. Sequence analysis revealed
a cDNA-AFLP fragment, Contig 6, was homologous to a substrate-proved psoralen
synthase gene, CYP71A22, and was part of citrus unigenes Cit.3003 and Csi.1332,
and predicted genes Ciclev10004717m in mandarin and orange1.1g041507m in sweet
orange. The two predicted genes contained the highly conserved motifs at one of
the substrate recognition sites of CYP71A22. Digital gene expression profile
showed the unigenes were expressed only in fruit and seed. Quantitative real-time
PCR also proved Contig 6 was down-regulated in Low Acid Foster. These results
showed the differentially expressed Contig 6 was related to the reduced
furanocoumarin levels in the mutant. The identified fragment, homologs, unigenes,
and genes may facilitate further furanocoumarin genetic study and grapefruit
variety improvement.

DOI: 10.1139/gen-2014-0164 
PMID: 25756876  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Elife. 2015 Mar 10;4. doi: 10.7554/eLife.04634.

Mapping microbial ecosystems and spoilage-gene flow in breweries highlights
patterns of contamination and resistance.

Bokulich NA(1), Bergsveinson J(2), Ziola B(2), Mills DA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Food Science and Technology, University of California, Davis,
Davis, United States. (2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine,
University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, Canada.

Distinct microbial ecosystems have evolved to meet the challenges of indoor
environments, shaping the microbial communities that interact most with modern
human activities. Microbial transmission in food-processing facilities has an
enormous impact on the qualities and healthfulness of foods, beneficially or
detrimentally interacting with food products. To explore modes of microbial
transmission and spoilage-gene frequency in a commercial food-production
scenario, we profiled hop-resistance gene frequencies and bacterial and fungal
communities in a brewery. We employed a Bayesian approach for predicting routes
of contamination, revealing critical control points for microbial management.
Physically mapping microbial populations over time illustrates patterns of
dispersal and identifies potential contaminant reservoirs within this
environment. Habitual exposure to beer is associated with increased abundance of 
spoilage genes, predicting greater contamination risk. Elucidating the genetic
landscapes of indoor environments poses important practical implications for
food-production systems and these concepts are translatable to other built
environments.

DOI: 10.7554/eLife.04634 
PMCID: PMC4352708
PMID: 25756611  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Med Sci (Paris). 2015 Feb;31(2):180-6. doi: 10.1051/medsci/20153102015. Epub 2015
Mar 4.

[Digital PCR compartmentalization II. Contribution for the quantitative detection
of circulating tumor DNA].

[Article in French]

Caen O(1), Nizard P(1), Garrigou S(1), Perez-Toralla K(1), Zonta E(1),
Laurent-Puig P(2), Taly V(1).

Author information: 
(1)Université Paris Sorbonne Cité, Inserm UMR-S1147, 45, rue des Saints-Pères,
75270, Paris, France. (2)Université Paris Sorbonne Cité, Inserm UMR-S1147, 45,
rue des Saints-Pères, 75270, Paris, France - Département de biologie, hôpital
européen Georges Pompidou, AP-HP, Paris, France.

Genetic markers are now widely used in the clinics, particularly in cancer
patient management. Indeed, these tumor markers can help in the diagnosis and
prognosis of the disease, and provide valuable information for treatment
orientation in the context of personalized medicine. The presence of circulating 
cell-free tumor DNA (cftDNA) and thus of tumor markers in the blood can be
considered to partly avoid the use of solid biopsies. The use of blood samples,
as liquid biopsies, is less invasive and described as more representative of
tumor heterogeneity. However, cftDNA can be found in blood in low proportion that
can vary according to the nature and the progression of the tumor. For these
reasons, the use of highly sensitive, specific and ideally quantitative methods
for its detection are required. These requirements constituted until recently a
technological limit, which now can be overcome thanks to digital PCR. This
technology could now become a very efficient and non-invasive tool in oncology,
complementary to conventional diagnostic techniques.

© 2015 médecine/sciences – Inserm.

DOI: 10.1051/medsci/20153102015 
PMID: 25744265  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. J Clin Microbiol. 2015 May;53(5):1628-38. doi: 10.1128/JCM.00180-15. Epub 2015
Mar 4.

High-level association of bovine digital dermatitis Treponema spp. with
contagious ovine digital dermatitis lesions and presence of Fusobacterium
necrophorum and Dichelobacter nodosus.

Sullivan LE(1), Clegg SR(2), Angell JW(3), Newbrook K(2), Blowey RW(4), Carter
SD(2), Bell J(2), Duncan JS(3), Grove-White DH(3), Murray RD(2), Evans NJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infection Biology, School of Veterinary Science, Institute of
Infection and Global Health, Liverpool, Merseyside, United Kingdom
l.sullivan@liverpool.ac.uk. (2)Department of Infection Biology, School of
Veterinary Science, Institute of Infection and Global Health, Liverpool,
Merseyside, United Kingdom. (3)Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, 
Institute of Infection and Global Health, University of Liverpool, Leahurst
Campus, Neston, Wirral, Cheshire, United Kingdom. (4)University of Liverpool &
Wood Veterinary Group, Gloucester, Gloucestershire, United Kingdom.

Contagious ovine digital dermatitis (CODD) is an important foot disease in sheep,
with significant animal welfare and economic implications. It is thought that
CODD emerged from bovine digital dermatitis (BDD) via treponemal bacteria. With
wildlife species such as elk now suffering a CODD-like disease, it is imperative 
to clarify these disease etiologies. A large investigation into treponemal
association with CODD is warranted. CODD lesions (n = 58) and healthy sheep foot 
tissues (n = 56) were analyzed by PCR for the three BDD-associated Treponema
phylogroups and two other lameness-associated bacteria, Dichelobacter nodosus and
Fusobacterium necrophorum. Spirochete culture was also attempted on CODD lesions.
"Treponema medium/Treponema vincentii-like," "Treponema phagedenis-like," and
Treponema pedis spirochetes were identified in 39/58 (67%), 49/58 (85%), and
41/58 (71%) of CODD lesions, respectively. One or more BDD-associated Treponema
phylogroups were detected in 100% of CODD lesions. Healthy foot tissues did not
amplify BDD-associated Treponema phylogroup DNA. D. nodosus and F. necrophorum
were present in 34/58 (59%) and 41/58 (71%) of CODD lesions and 22/56 (39%) and
5/56 (9%) of healthy foot tissues, respectively. Thirty-two spirochetes were
isolated from CODD lesions, with representatives clustering with, and
indistinguishable from, each of the three BDD-associated Treponema phylogroups
based on 16S rRNA gene comparisons. This study for the first time demonstrates a 
high-level association for BDD treponeme phylogroups in CODD and their absence
from healthy tissues, supporting the hypothesis that BDD treponemes play a
primary causative role in CODD and confirming that the specific PCR assays are an
effective differential diagnostic tool for CODD.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.00180-15 
PMCID: PMC4400778
PMID: 25740778  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2015 Apr;150(2):299-307. doi: 10.1007/s10549-015-3322-6.
Epub 2015 Mar 4.

PIK3CA mutations in serum DNA are predictive of recurrence in primary breast
cancer patients.

Oshiro C(1), Kagara N, Naoi Y, Shimoda M, Shimomura A, Maruyama N, Shimazu K, Kim
SJ, Noguchi S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Breast and Endocrine Surgery, Osaka University Graduate School
of Medicine, 2-2-E10 Yamadaoka, Suita-shi, Osaka, 565-0871, Japan.

We attempted to develop a highly sensitive and specific method for the detection 
of circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) using a digital PCR (dPCR) assay for PIK3CA
mutations (i.e., H1047R, E545K, and E542K) in primary breast cancer patients. The
sensitivity of the dPCR assay for the mutant alleles was examined using cell
lines with PIK3CA mutations and proved to be 0.01 %. Serum samples were collected
pre-operatively from 313 stage I-III breast cancer patients, of whom 110 were
found to have PIK3CA mutant tumors. The serum samples from these patients with
PIK3CA mutant tumors were subjected to the dPCR assay, and 25 (22.7 %) were found
to be positive. No PIK3CA mutant ctDNA was detected in the serum samples of 50
healthy women and 30 breast cancer patients with PIK3CA non-mutant tumors. The
patients with PIK3CA mutant ctDNA were dichotomized into mutant ctDNA-high
(ctDNA(high)) and ctDNA-low (ctDNA(low)) groups based on the median. The
ctDNA(high) patients exhibited significantly shorter recurrence-free survival
(RFS; P = 0.0002) and overall survival rates (OS; P = 0.0048) compared to those
exhibited by the combined ctDNA(low) patient and ctDNA-free patient group.
Multivariate analysis revealed that ctDNA(high) status significantly predicted
poor RFS and OS and did so independently of conventional histological parameters.
These results suggest that dPCR is a highly sensitive and specific method for the
detection of PIK3CA mutant ctDNA and that ctDNA(high) but not ctDNA(low) status
is a significant and independent prognostic factor for primary breast cancer
patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-015-3322-6 
PMID: 25736040  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Fa Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2014 Oct;30(5):342-5.

[Species identification and absolute quantification of biological samples by
droplet digital PCR].

[Article in Chinese]

Hu W, Chen RH, Zhang C, An ZY, Wang B, Ping Y.

OBJECTIVE: To test droplet digital PCR for species identification and absolute
quantification of biological sample.
METHODS: Specific primers and probes for human mtDNA encoding gene ND4 and 16S
rRNA were designed, and the species-specificity was assessed on DNA samples
derived from human and common animals. To determine the sensitivity and stability
of droplet digital PCR for species identification and absolute quantification,
gradient dilution series of recombinant plasmid and 16 human DNA samples were
analyzed.
RESULTS: Human recombinant plasmid FAM (ND4) could be used in detecting the
samples of human. And the results of detecting were consistent with all levels of
diluted concentrations. Droplet digital PCR was able to detect low and single
copy of target DNA.
CONCLUSION: Droplet digital PCR, with high sensitivity and specificity, is fully 
amenable for species identification and absolute quantification of biological
samples, also it can be applied on routine forensic examination.


PMID: 25735069  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


781. Am J Hum Genet. 2015 Mar 5;96(3):480-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2015.01.007. Epub
2015 Feb 26.

A somatic MAP3K3 mutation is associated with verrucous venous malformation.

Couto JA(1), Vivero MP(1), Kozakewich HP(2), Taghinia AH(3), Mulliken JB(3),
Warman ML(4), Greene AK(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plastic and Oral Surgery, Boston Children's Hospital, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA. (2)Vascular Anomalies Center, Boston
Children's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA; Department of Pathology, Boston
Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA. (3)Department
of Plastic and Oral Surgery, Boston Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA; Vascular Anomalies Center, Boston Children's Hospital,
Boston, MA 02115, USA. (4)Vascular Anomalies Center, Boston Children's Hospital, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA; Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Boston Children's
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA; Department of Genetics, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA; Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA. (5)Department of Plastic and
Oral Surgery, Boston Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA
02115, USA; Vascular Anomalies Center, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, MA
02115, USA. Electronic address: arin.greene@childrens.harvard.edu.

Verrucous venous malformation (VVM), also called "verrucous hemangioma," is a
non-hereditary, congenital, vascular anomaly comprised of aberrant clusters of
malformed dermal venule-like channels underlying hyperkeratotic skin. We tested
the hypothesis that VVM lesions arise as a consequence of a somatic mutation. We 
performed whole-exome sequencing (WES) on VVM tissue from six unrelated
individuals and looked for somatic mutations affecting the same gene in specimens
from multiple persons. We observed mosaicism for a missense mutation
(NM_002401.3, c.1323C>G; NP_002392, p.Iso441Met) in mitogen-activated protein
kinase kinase kinase 3 (MAP3K3) in three of six individuals. We confirmed the
presence of this mutation via droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) in the three subjects
and found the mutation in three additional specimens from another four
participants. Mutant allele frequencies ranged from 6% to 19% in affected tissue.
We did not observe this mutant allele in unaffected tissue or in affected tissue 
from individuals with other types of vascular anomalies. Studies using global and
conditional Map3k3 knockout mice have previously implicated MAP3K3 in vascular
development. MAP3K3 dysfunction probably causes VVM in humans.

Copyright © 2015 The American Society of Human Genetics. Published by Elsevier
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2015.01.007 
PMCID: PMC4375628
PMID: 25728774  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2015 Aug;112(8):1506-22.

Hi-Fi SELEX: A High-Fidelity Digital-PCR Based Therapeutic Aptamer Discovery
Platform.

Ouellet E, Foley JH, Conway EM, Haynes C.

Current technologies for aptamer discovery typically leverage the systematic
evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment (SELEX) concept by recursively
panning semi-combinatorial ssDNA or RNA libraries against a molecular target. The
expectation is that this iterative selection process will be sufficiently
stringent to identify a candidate pool of specific high-affinity aptamers.
However, failure of this process to yield promising aptamers is common, due in
part to (i) limitations in library designs, (ii) retention of non-specific
aptamers during screening rounds, (iii) excessive accumulation of amplification
artifacts, and (iv) the use of screening criteria (binding affinity) that does
not reflect therapeutic activity. We report a new selection platform,
High-Fidelity (Hi-Fi) SELEX, that introduces fixed-region blocking elements to
safeguard the functional diversity of the library. The chemistry of the
target-display surface and the composition of the equilibration solvent are
engineered to strongly inhibit non-specific retention of aptamers. Partition
efficiencies approaching 10(6) are thereby realized. Retained members are
amplified in Hi-Fi SELEX by digital PCR in a manner that ensures both elimination
of amplification artifacts and stoichiometric conversion of amplicons into the
single-stranded library required for the next selection round. Improvements to
aptamer selections are first demonstrated using human α-thrombin as the target.
Three clinical targets (human factors IXa, X, and D) are then subjected to Hi-Fi 
SELEX. For each, rapid enrichment of ssDNA aptamers offering an order-nM mean
equilibrium dissociation constant (Kd) is achieved within three selection rounds,
as quantified by a new label-free qPCR assay reported here. Therapeutic
candidates against factor D are identified.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.25581 
PMID: 25727321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Int J Food Microbiol. 2015 May 18;201:17-26. doi:
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2015.02.006. Epub 2015 Feb 11.

A comparative study of digital RT-PCR and RT-qPCR for quantification of Hepatitis
A virus and Norovirus in lettuce and water samples.

Coudray-Meunier C(1), Fraisse A(1), Martin-Latil S(1), Guillier L(2), Delannoy
S(3), Fach P(3), Perelle S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Université Paris-Est, ANSES, Food Safety Laboratory, Enteric Viruses Unit, 14 
rue Pierre et Marie Curie, 94701 Maisons-Alfort cedex, France. (2)Université
Paris-Est, ANSES, Food Safety Laboratory, Modelling of Bacterial Behaviour Unit, 
14 rue Pierre et Marie Curie, 94701 Maisons-Alfort cedex, France. (3)Université
Paris-Est, ANSES, Food Safety Laboratory, IdentyPath, 14 rue Pierre et Marie
Curie, 94701 Maisons-Alfort cedex, France. (4)Université Paris-Est, ANSES, Food
Safety Laboratory, Enteric Viruses Unit, 14 rue Pierre et Marie Curie, 94701
Maisons-Alfort cedex, France. Electronic address: sylvie.perelle@anses.fr.

Sensitive and quantitative detection of foodborne enteric viruses is classically 
achieved by quantitative RT-PCR (RT-qPCR). Recently, digital PCR (dPCR) was
described as a novel approach to genome quantification without need for a
standard curve. The performance of microfluidic digital RT-PCR (RT-dPCR) was
compared to RT-qPCR for detecting the main viruses responsible for foodborne
outbreaks (human Noroviruses (NoV) and Hepatitis A virus (HAV)) in spiked lettuce
and bottled water. Two process controls (Mengovirus and Murine Norovirus) were
used and external amplification controls (EAC) were added to examine inhibition
of RT-qPCR and RT-dPCR. For detecting viral RNA and cDNA, the sensitivity of the 
RT-dPCR assays was either comparable to that of RT-qPCR (RNA of HAV, NoV GI,
Mengovirus) or slightly (around 1 log10) decreased (NoV GII and MNV-1 RNA and of 
HAV, NoV GI, NoV GII cDNA). The number of genomic copies determined by dPCR was
always from 0.4 to 1.7 log10 lower than the expected numbers of copies calculated
by using the standard qPCR curve. Viral recoveries calculated by RT-dPCR were
found to be significantly higher than by RT-qPCR for NoV GI, HAV and Mengovirus
in water, and for NoV GII and HAV in lettuce samples. The RT-dPCR assay proved to
be more tolerant to inhibitory substances present in lettuce samples. This
absolute quantitation approach may be useful to standardize quantification of
enteric viruses in bottled water and lettuce samples and may be extended to
quantifying other human pathogens in food samples.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2015.02.006 
PMID: 25725459  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Bull Environ Contam Toxicol. 2015 Apr;94(4):453-9. doi:
10.1007/s00128-015-1502-z. Epub 2015 Feb 28.

Expression profiling of cadmium response genes in ramie (Boehmeria nivea L.)
root.

She W(1), Zhu S, Jie Y, Xing H, Cui G.

Author information: 
(1)Ramie Research Institute, Hunan Agricultural University, Changsha, 410128,
Hunan, China.

Ramie (Boehmeria nivea), a perennial herb belongs to Urticaceae family, is a
rapid growth and high biomass crop with highly tolerant and accumulative to heavy
metals. However, the gene expression and regulation caused by cadmium (Cd) in
ramie has not been well studied. In the present study, a gene expression database
of ramie root in the absence (control) or presence of 100 μM Cd was established. 
Solexa high-throughput sequencing technology showed that 3,654,395 and 3,572,333 
tags have been obtained from control and Cd treatment respectively. In total,
3887 genes were detected with significant differential expression levels, in
which 2883 genes were up-regulated and 1004 genes were down-regulated. Gene
ontology and pathway-based analyses were performed to determine and further to
understand the biological functions of those differentially expressed genes.
Fifteen genes were selected and their expression levels were confirmed by
quantitative RT-PCR, and twelve of them showed consistent expression patterns
with the digital gene expression data. Results on these expression profiling of
genes lay the basis for biotechnological modification of new transgenic plants
with improved phytoremediation capacity.

DOI: 10.1007/s00128-015-1502-z 
PMID: 25724673  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. PLoS One. 2015 Feb 27;10(2):e0118226. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0118226.
eCollection 2015.

Selection of reference genes for qPCR- and ddPCR-based analyses of gene
expression in Senescing Barley leaves.

Zmienko A(1), Samelak-Czajka A(2), Goralski M(3), Sobieszczuk-Nowicka E(4),
Kozlowski P(3), Figlerowicz M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Systems Biology Department, Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry,
Polish Academy of Sciences, Poznan, Poland; Institute of Computing Science,
Faculty of Computing, Poznan University of Technology, Poznan, Poland.
(2)Institute of Computing Science, Faculty of Computing, Poznan University of
Technology, Poznan, Poland. (3)Molecular and Systems Biology Department,
Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry, Polish Academy of Sciences, Poznan, Poland.
(4)Department of Plant Physiology, Faculty of Biology, Adam Mickiewicz
University, Poznan, Poland.

Leaf senescence is a tightly regulated developmental or stress-induced process.
It is accompanied by dramatic changes in cell metabolism and structure,
eventually leading to the disintegration of chloroplasts, the breakdown of leaf
proteins, internucleosomal fragmentation of nuclear DNA and ultimately cell
death. In light of the global and intense reorganization of the senescing leaf
transcriptome, measuring time-course gene expression patterns in this model is
challenging due to the evident problems associated with selecting stable
reference genes. We have used oligonucleotide microarray data to identify 181
genes with stable expression in the course of dark-induced senescence of barley
leaf. From those genes, we selected 5 candidates and confirmed their invariant
expression by both reverse transcription quantitative PCR and droplet digital PCR
(ddPCR). We used the selected reference genes to normalize the level of the
expression of the following senescence-responsive genes in ddPCR assays: SAG12,
ICL, AGXT, CS and RbcS. We were thereby able to achieve a substantial reduction
in the data variability. Although the use of reference genes is not considered
mandatory in ddPCR assays, our results show that it is advisable in special
cases, specifically those that involve the following conditions: i) a low number 
of repeats, ii) the detection of low-fold changes in gene expression or iii)
series data comparisons (such as time-course experiments) in which large sample
variation greatly affects the overall gene expression profile and biological
interpretation of the data.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0118226 
PMCID: PMC4344324
PMID: 25723393  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. J Cell Biochem. 2015 Jun;116(6):1153-63. doi: 10.1002/jcb.25052.

Nonivamide enhances miRNA let-7d expression and decreases adipogenesis PPARγ
expression in 3T3-L1 cells.

Rohm B(1), Holik AK, Kretschy N, Somoza MM, Ley JP, Widder S, Krammer GE, Marko
D, Somoza V.

Author information: 
(1)Christian Doppler Laboratory for Bioactive Aroma Compounds, Althanstraße 14,
1090, Vienna, Austria; Department of Nutritional and Physiological Chemistry,
Althanstraße 14, 1090, Vienna, Austria.

Red pepper and its major pungent principle, capsaicin (CAP), have been shown to
be effective anti-obesity agents by reducing energy intake, enhancing energy
metabolism, decreasing serum triacylglycerol content, and inhibiting adipogenesis
via activation of the transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V
member 1 (TRPV1). However, the binding of CAP to the TRPV1 receptor is also
responsible for its pungent sensation, strongly limiting its dietary intake.
Here, the effects of a less pungent structural CAP-analog, nonivamide, on
adipogenesis and underlying mechanisms in 3T3-L1 cells were studied. Nonivamide
was found to reduce mean lipid accumulation, a marker of adipogenesis, to a
similar extent as CAP, up to 10.4% (P < 0.001). Blockage of the TRPV1 receptor
with the specific inhibitor trans-tert-butylcyclohexanol revealed that the
anti-adipogenic activity of nonivamide depends, as with CAP, on TRPV1 receptor
activation. In addition, in cells treated with nonivamide during adipogenesis,
protein levels of the pro-adipogenic transcription factor peroxisome-proliferator
activated receptor γ (PPARγ) decreased. Results from miRNA microarrays and
digital droplet PCR analysis demonstrated an increase in the expression of the
miRNA mmu-let-7d-5p, which has been associated with decreased PPARγ levels.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcb.25052 
PMCID: PMC4949678
PMID: 25704235  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. J Clin Microbiol. 2015 May;53(5):1500-5. doi: 10.1128/JCM.03375-14. Epub 2015 Feb
18.

Comparative evaluation of three commercial quantitative cytomegalovirus standards
by use of digital and real-time PCR.

Hayden RT(1), Gu Z(2), Sam SS(3), Sun Y(4), Tang L(4), Pounds S(4), Caliendo
AM(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis,
Tennessee, USA randall.hayden@stjude.org. (2)Department of Pathology, St. Jude
Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee, USA. (3)Miriam Hospital,
Providence, Rhode Island, USA. (4)Department of Biostatistics, St. Jude
Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee, USA. (5)Department of Medicine,
Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island, USA.

The recent development of the 1st WHO International Standard for human
cytomegalovirus (CMV) and the introduction of commercially produced secondary
standards have raised hopes of improved agreement among laboratories performing
quantitative PCR for CMV. However, data to evaluate the trueness and uniformity
of secondary standards and the consistency of results achieved when these
materials are run on various assays are lacking. Three concentrations of each of 
the three commercially prepared secondary CMV standards were tested in
quadruplicate by three real-time and two digital PCR methods. The mean results
were compared in a pairwise fashion with nominal values provided by each
manufacturer. The agreement of results among all methods for each sample and for 
like concentrations of each standard was also assessed. The relationship between 
the nominal values of standards and the measured values varied, depending upon
the assay used and the manufacturer of the standards, with the degree of bias
ranging from +0.6 to -1.0 log10 IU/ml. The mean digital PCR result differed
significantly among the secondary standards, as did the results of the real-time 
PCRs, particularly when plotted against nominal log10 IU values. Commercially
available quantitative secondary CMV standards produce variable results when
tested by different real-time and digital PCR assays, with various magnitudes of 
bias compared to nominal values. These findings suggest that the use of such
materials may not achieve the intended uniformity among laboratories measuring
CMV viral load, as envisioned by adaptation of the WHO standard.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.03375-14 
PMCID: PMC4400765
PMID: 25694529  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Acupunct Electrother Res. 2014;39(3-4):229-39.

Integrative approach to diagnosis of genital human papillomaviruses (HPV)
infection of female.

Dunjic M, Stanisic S, Krstic D, Stanisic M, Ignjatic ZJ, Dunjic M.

Human papillomavirus (HPV) is a virus from the papillomavirus family that is
capable of infecting humans. Some types of HPVs cause warts, while others can
lead to cancers of the cervix, vulva, vagina, penis, oropharynx and anus.
High-risk human papillomavirus (hr HPV) has been detected in almost all cervical 
squamous cell carcinomas and adenocarcinomas. All patients examined by
colposcopy. Cervical swab is routinely done and patients are screened with both
HPV DNA by Real Time Polimerase Chain Reaction (RT PCR) testing and Pap testing. 
Pictures obtained by colposcopy were examined by indirect Bi-Digital O-Ring Test 
(BDORT) by using reference control substance (RCS): HPV 16, HPV 18, and Integrin 
α5 β1. BDORT was developed by Prof. Omura Y. of New York and received U.S. patent
in 1993. For detection of HPV DNA we used RT PCR and standard Qiagen method which
detect 18 types (16, 18, 31, 33, 35, 39, 45, 51, 52, 56, 58, 59, 68, 6, 11, 42,
43, 44) of HPV from smear. From 63 patients where is BDORT indicated presence of 
HPV, in 49 patients (77.8%) RT PCR confirmed presence of HPV. From 63 patients in
54 patients (85.7%), we detected, by colposcopic exam, some kind of lesions
associated with HPV infection. Results obtained by RT PCR: one type (1/18) of DNA
HPV in 25 patients (51.02%), 2 types (2/18) in 15 patients (30.61%) and 3 types
(3/18) in 9 patients (18.37%). Although BDORT results usually have higher
sensitivity and detection rate is much higher, it can be used together with RT
PCR in detection of HPV and cervical lesions associated with HPV infection.


PMID: 25693306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Int J Genomics. 2014;2014:381501. doi: 10.1155/2014/381501. Epub 2014 Nov 26.

Identification of Salt-Stress-Induced Genes from the RNA-Seq Data of Reaumuria
trigyna Using Differential-Display Reverse Transcription PCR.

Dang ZH(1), Qi Q(1), Zhang HR(1), Li HY(1), Wu SB(2), Wang YC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Herbage & Endemic Crop Biotechnology and College of Life
Sciences, Inner Mongolia University, Hohhot 010021, China. (2)School of
Environmental and Rural Science, University of New England, Armidale, NSW 2351,
Australia.

Next generation sequencing (NGS) technologies have been used to generate huge
amounts of sequencing data from many organisms. However, the correct choice of
candidate genes and prevention of false-positive results computed from digital
gene expression (DGE) of RNA-seq data are vital when using these genetic
resources. We indirectly identified 18 salt-stress-induced Reaumuria trigyna
transcripts from the transcriptome sequencing data using differential-display
reverse transcription PCR (DDRT-PCR) combined with local BLAST searches. Highly
consistent with the DGE results, the quantitative real-time PCR expression
patterns of these transcripts showed strong upregulation by salt stress,
suggesting that these genes may play important roles in R. trigyna's survival
under high-salt environments. The method presented here successfully identified
responsive genes from the massive amount of RNA-seq data. Thus, we suggest that
DDRT-PCR could be employed to mine NGS data in a wide range of applications in
transcriptomic studies. In addition, the genes identified in the present study
are promising candidates for further elucidation of the salt tolerance mechanisms
in R. trigyna.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/381501 
PMCID: PMC4322826
PMID: 25692129 


790. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2015 May;115:126-36. doi: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2015.02.007.
Epub 2015 Feb 14.

Differential gene expression analysis of benzo(a)pyrene toxicity in the clam,
Ruditapes philippinarum.

Liu T(1), Pan L(2), Jin Q(1), Cai Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Key Laboratory of Mariculture, Ministry of Education, Ocean University of 
China, Qingdao 266003, China. (2)The Key Laboratory of Mariculture, Ministry of
Education, Ocean University of China, Qingdao 266003, China. Electronic address: 
panlq@ouc.edu.cn.

Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are known for their carcinogenic,
teratogenic and mutagenic properties. Benzo(a)pyrene (BaP) possesses the greatest
carcinogenic potential among the various PAHs. In this study, digital gene
expression (DGE) was performed to investigate the digestive gland transcriptome
profile of the clam Ruditapes philippinarum exposed to BaP. A total of 10,508,312
and 11,414,297 clean reads were generated respectively, from control and BaP
exposure DGE libraries. One hundred and forty-five differentially expressed genes
were detected after comparing two libraries with 58 up-regulated and 87
down-regulated genes. GO annotation and KEGG pathway analyses were performed on
all genes to understand their biological functions and processes. The results
showed that numerous enriched differentially expressed genes are related to
growth and development, antioxidant metabolism, apoptosis and detoxification
metabolism. Quantitative real-time PCR was performed to verify the expressed
genes of DGE. Our results provide evidences that RNA-seq is a powerful tool for
toxicology and capable of generating novel and valuable information at the
transcriptome level for characterizing deleterious effects caused by BaP.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2015.02.007 
PMID: 25686690  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Anal Chem. 2015 Mar 3;87(5):3114. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.5b00061. Epub 2015
Feb 12.

Correction to High sensitivity detection and quantitation of DNA copy number and 
single nucleotide variants with single color droplet digital PCR.

Miotke L, Lau BT, Rumma RT, Ji HP.

Erratum for
    Anal Chem. 2014 Mar 4;86(5):2618-24.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.5b00061 
PMCID: PMC4354141
PMID: 25674918 


792. J Hypertens. 2015 May;33(5):1014-22. doi: 10.1097/HJH.0000000000000504.

Expression and functional role of the prorenin receptor in the human
adrenocortical zona glomerulosa and in primary aldosteronism.

Recarti C(1), Seccia TM, Caroccia B, Gonzales-Campos A, Ceolotto G, Lenzini L,
Petrelli L, Belloni AS, Rainey WE, Nussberger J, Rossi GP.

Author information: 
(1)aDepartment of Medicine - DIMED, Padova, Italy bCARIM - School for
Cardiovascular Diseases, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands
cDepartment of Molecular Medicine, University of Padova, Padova, Italy dMolecular
& Integrative Physiology, Ann Arbor, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan,
USA eDepartment of Internal Medicine - Division of Angiology and Hypertension,
University of Lausanne, Switzerland. *Chiara Recarti and Teresa Maria Seccia
contributed equally to the writing of this article.

OBJECTIVES: Prorenin can be detected in plasma of hypertensive patients. If
detected in patients with primary aldosteronism could implicate prorenin in the
development of primary aldosteronism. To address this issue, we measured the
plasma prorenin levels in primary aldosteronism patients, the expression of the
prorenin receptor (PRR) in the normal human adrenocortical zona glomerulosa and
aldosterone-producing adenoma (APA), and we investigated the functional effects
of PRR activation in human adrenocortical cells.
METHOD: Plasma renin activity, aldosterone, and active and total
trypsin-activated renin were measured in primary aldosteronism patients,
essential hypertensive patients, and healthy individuals, and then prorenin
levels were calculated. Localization and functional role of PRR were investigated
in human and rat tissues, and aldosterone-producing cells.
RESULTS: Primary aldosteronism patients had detectable plasma levels of prorenin.
Using digital-droplet real-time PCR, we found a high PRR-to-porphobilinogen
deaminase ratio in both the normal adrenal cortex and APAs. Marked expression of 
the PRR gene and protein was also found in HAC15 cells. Immunoblotting, confocal,
and immunogold electron microscopy demonstrated PRR at the cell membrane and
intracellularly. Renin and prorenin significantly triggered both CYP11B2
expression (aldosterone synthase) and ERK1/2 phosphorylation, but only CYP11B2
transcription was prevented by aliskiren.
CONCLUSION: The presence of detectable plasma prorenin in primary aldosteronism
patients, and the high expression of PRR in the normal human adrenal cortex, APA 
tissue, CD56+ aldosterone-producing cells, along with activation of CYP11B2
synthesis and ERK1/2 phosphorylation, suggest that the circulating and locally
produced prorenin may contribute to the development or maintenance of human
primary aldosteronism.

DOI: 10.1097/HJH.0000000000000504 
PMID: 25668351  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Med Sci (Paris). 2015 Jan;31(1):84-92. doi: 10.1051/medsci/20153101017. Epub 2015
Feb 6.

[Digital PCR compartmentalization I. Single-molecule detection of rare
mutations].

[Article in French]

Perez-Toralla K(1), Pekin D(2), Bartolo JF(1), Garlan F(1), Nizard P(1),
Laurent-Puig P(1), Baret JC(3), Taly V(1).

Author information: 
(1)Université Paris Sorbonne Cité, Inserm UMR-S1147, 45, rue des Saints-Pères,
75270 Paris, France. (2)Université Paris Sorbonne Cité, Inserm UMR-S1147, 45, rue
des Saints-Pères, 75270 Paris, France - Droplets membranes and interfaces, Max
Planck institute for dynamics and self-organization, Am Fassberg 17, D-37077
Göttingen, Allemagne. (3)Droplets membranes and interfaces, Max Planck institute 
for dynamics and self-organization, Am Fassberg 17, D-37077 Göttingen, Allemagne 
- Soft micro systems, CNRS, université de Bordeaux, CRPP, UPR 8641, 115, avenue
Schweitzer, 33600 Pessac, France.

Polymerase chain reaction based techniques have been widely used in laboratory
settings. Several applications in oncology, virology or prenatal diagnosis
require highly sensitive detection methods, which cannot be achieved with
conventional techniques. Digital PCR (dPCR) was developed from the association of
PCR and limiting dilution procedures. It is based on the compartmentalization of 
DNA molecules in small volumes. Controlling the size and the content of each
compartment is crucial to obtain a high sensitivity with a single molecule
resolution. Microfluidics offers promising tools to isolate DNA fragments such as
microdroplets, microchambers or microwells with volumes ranging from few
picoliters to nanoliters. The review provides an overview of recent developments 
of microfluidics dPCR platforms and how this technology can influence the
management of cancer patients.

© 2015 médecine/sciences – Inserm.

DOI: 10.1051/medsci/20153101017 
PMID: 25658735  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Gut. 2016 Apr;65(4):625-34. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2014-308859. Epub 2015 Feb 4.

Analysis of circulating tumour DNA to monitor disease burden following colorectal
cancer surgery.

Reinert T(1), Schøler LV(1), Thomsen R(1), Tobiasen H(1), Vang S(1), Nordentoft
I(1), Lamy P(1), Kannerup AS(2), Mortensen FV(2), Stribolt K(3), Hamilton-Dutoit 
S(3), Nielsen HJ(4), Laurberg S(5), Pallisgaard N(6), Pedersen JS(1), Ørntoft
TF(1), Andersen CL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark.
(2)Department of Surgical Gastroenterology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus,
Denmark. (3)Institute of Pathology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark. 
(4)Department of Surgical Gastroenterology, University of Copenhagen, Hvidovre
Hospital, Hvidovre, Denmark. (5)Department of Surgery P, Aarhus University
Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark. (6)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Vejle
Hospital, Vejle, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: To develop an affordable and robust pipeline for selection of
patient-specific somatic structural variants (SSVs) being informative about
radicality of the primary resection, response to adjuvant therapy, incipient
recurrence and response to treatment performed in relation to diagnosis of
recurrence.
DESIGN: We have established efficient procedures for identification of SSVs by
next-generation sequencing and subsequent quantification of 3-6 SSVs in plasma.
The consequence of intratumour heterogeneity on our approach was assessed. The
level of circulating tumour DNA (ctDNA) was quantified in 151 serial plasma
samples from six relapsing and five non-relapsing colorectal cancer (CRC)
patients by droplet digital PCR, and correlated to clinical findings.
RESULTS: Up to six personalised assays were designed for each patient. Our
approach enabled efficient temporal assessment of disease status, response to
surgical and oncological intervention, and early detection of incipient
recurrence. Our approach provided 2-15 (mean 10) months' lead time on detection
of metastatic recurrence compared to conventional follow-up. The sensitivity and 
specificity of the SSVs in terms of detecting postsurgery relapse were 100%.
CONCLUSIONS: We show that assessment of ctDNA is a non-invasive, exquisitely
specific and highly sensitive approach for monitoring disease load, which has the
potential to provide clinically relevant lead times compared with conventional
methods. Furthermore, we provide a low-coverage protocol optimised for
identifying SSVs with excellent correlation between SSVs identified in tumours
and matched metastases. Application of ctDNA analysis has the potential to change
clinical practice in the management of CRC.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/gutjnl-2014-308859 
PMID: 25654990  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. J Thorac Oncol. 2015 Jan;10(1):212-7. doi: 10.1097/JTO.0000000000000349.

Microdroplet digital PCR: detection and quantitation of biomarkers in archived
tissue and serial plasma samples in patients with lung cancer.

Gao F(1), Pfeifer E, Farah H, Karampini E, Dua D, Kamal N, Cane P, Tobal K, Sethi
T, Spicer J, McCaughan F.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of *Oncology, †Asthma, Allergy, and Lung Biology, King's College
London, London, United Kingdom; ‡Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Trust, London, United
Kingdom; and §Department of Biochemistry, University of Cambridge, Cambridge,
United Kingdom.

INTRODUCTION: There is much interest in the use of noninvasive biomarkers in the 
management of lung cancer, particularly with respect to early diagnosis and
monitoring the response to intervention. Cell-free tumor DNA in patients with
cancer has been shown to hold potential as a noninvasive biomarker, in which the 
response to treatment may be evaluated using a blood test only. Multiple
technologies have been suggested as being appropriate to measure cell-free tumor 
DNA. Microdroplet digital polymerase chain reaction (mdPCR) has a number of
attributes that suggest it may be a useful tool for detecting clinically relevant
genetic events. It offers precise and accurate quantitation of mutant alleles,
including rare variants.
METHODS: We evaluate the performance of mdPCR in the analysis of DNA extracted
from reference standards, tumor biopsies, and patient plasma.
RESULTS: The potential of mdPCR to detect clinically relevant mutations is
demonstrated, in both formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded material and plasma.
Furthermore, we show that mdPCR can be used to track changes in peripheral blood 
biomarkers in response to treatment and to detect the emergence of drug-resistant
clones.
CONCLUSIONS: MdPCR has potential as a tool to detect and quantify tumor-derived
mutational events in cell-free DNA from patients with lung cancer.

DOI: 10.1097/JTO.0000000000000349 
PMID: 25654729  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Biochemistry. 2015 Feb 17;54(6):1338-52. doi: 10.1021/bi500905b. Epub 2015 Feb 5.

A new general model for predicting melting thermodynamics of complementary and
mismatched B-form duplexes containing locked nucleic acids: application to probe 
design for digital PCR detection of somatic mutations.

Hughesman C(1), Fakhfakh K, Bidshahri R, Lund HL, Haynes C.

Author information: 
(1)Michael Smith Laboratories, University of British Columbia , Vancouver, BC,
Canada V6T 1Z4.

Advances in real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR), as well as the emergence
of digital PCR (dPCR) and useful modified nucleotide chemistries, including
locked nucleic acids (LNAs), have created the potential to improve and expand
clinical applications of PCR through their ability to better quantify and
differentiate amplification products, but fully realizing this potential will
require robust methods for designing dual-labeled hydrolysis probes and
predicting their hybridization thermodynamics as a function of their sequence,
chemistry, and template complementarity. We present here a nearest-neighbor
thermodynamic model that accurately predicts the melting thermodynamics of a
short oligonucleotide duplexed either to its perfect complement or to a template 
containing mismatched base pairs. The model may be applied to pure-DNA duplexes
or to duplexes for which one strand contains any number and pattern of LNA
substitutions. Perturbations to duplex stability arising from mismatched DNA:DNA 
or LNA:DNA base pairs are treated at the Gibbs energy level to maintain
statistical significance in the regressed model parameters. This approach, when
combined with the model's accounting of the temperature dependencies of the
melting enthalpy and entropy, permits accurate prediction of T(m) values for
pure-DNA homoduplexes or LNA-substituted heteroduplexes containing one or two
independent mismatched base pairs. Terms accounting for changes in solution
conditions and terminal addition of fluorescent dyes and quenchers are then
introduced so that the model may be used to accurately predict and thereby tailor
the T(m) of a pure-DNA or LNA-substituted hydrolysis probe when duplexed either
to its perfect-match template or to a template harboring a noncomplementary base.
The model, which builds on classic nearest-neighbor thermodynamics, should
therefore be of use to clinicians and biologists who require probes that
distinguish and quantify two closely related alleles in either a quantitative PCR
or dPCR assay. This potential is demonstrated by using the model to design
allele-specific probes that completely discriminate and quantify clinically
relevant mutant alleles (BRAF V600E and KIT D816V) in a dPCR assay.

DOI: 10.1021/bi500905b 
PMID: 25654628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Cancer Med. 2015 Apr;4(4):540-50. doi: 10.1002/cam4.414. Epub 2015 Feb 4.

Detection of tumor ALK status in neuroblastoma patients using peripheral blood.

Combaret V(1), Iacono I, Bellini A, Bréjon S, Bernard V, Marabelle A, Coze C,
Pierron G, Lapouble E, Schleiermacher G, Blay JY.

Author information: 
(1)Centre Léon-Bérard, Laboratoire de Recherche Translationnelle, 28 rue Laennec,
69373, Lyon Cedex 08, France.

Erratum in
    Cancer Med. 2016 Feb;5(2):386.

New protocols based on ALK-targeted therapy by crizotinib or other ALK-targeting 
molecules have opened for the treatment of patients with neuroblastoma (NB) if
their tumors showed mutation and/or amplification of the ALK gene. However, tumor
samples are not always available for analysis of ALK mutational status in
particular at relapse. Here, we evaluated the ALK mutational status of NB samples
by analysis of circulating DNA, using the droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) system.
ddPCR assays was developed for the detection of ALK mutations at F1174 and R1275 
hotspots found in NB tumors and was applied for the analysis of circulating DNA
obtained from 200 μL of serum or plasma samples collected from 114 patients with 
NB. The mutations F1174L (exon 23 position 3520, T>C and position 3522, C>A) and 
the mutation R1275Q (exon 25 position 3824, G>A) were detected in circulating
DNA. The sensitivity of our test was 100%, 85%, and 92%, respectively, and the
specificity was 100%, 91%, and 98%, respectively. In conclusion, the assay that
we have developed offers a reliable, noninvasive blood test to assess ALK
mutational status at F1174 and R1275 hotspots and should help clinicians to
identify patients showing an ALK mutation in particular when no tumor tissue is
available.

© 2015 The Authors. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cam4.414 
PMCID: PMC4402069
PMID: 25653133  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Anal Chem. 2015 Apr 7;87(7):3706-13. doi: 10.1021/ac5041617. Epub 2015 Mar 10.

Highly reproducible absolute quantification of Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex
by digital PCR.

Devonshire AS(1), Honeyborne I(2), Gutteridge A(1), Whale AS(1), Nixon G(1),
Wilson P(3), Jones G(1), McHugh TD(2), Foy CA(1), Huggett JF(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)†Molecular and Cell Biology Team, LGC, Teddington, Middlesex TW11 0LY, United 
Kingdom. (2)‡Centre for Clinical Microbiology, Department of Infection, Royal
Free Campus, University College London, London NW3 2PF, United Kingdom.
(3)§Statistics Team, LGC, Teddington, Middlesex TW11 0LY, United Kingdom.

Digital PCR (dPCR) offers absolute quantification through the limiting dilution
of template nucleic acid molecules and has the potential to offer high
reproducibility. However, the robustness of dPCR has yet to be evaluated using
complex genomes to compare different dPCR methods and platforms. We used DNA
templates from the pathogen Mycobacterium tuberculosis to evaluate the impact of 
template type, master mixes, primer pairs and, crucially, extraction methods on
dPCR performance. Performance was compared between the chip (BioMark) and droplet
(QX100) formats. In the absence of any external calibration, dPCR measurements
were generally consistent within ∼2-fold between different master mixes and
primers. Template DNA integrity could influence dPCR performance: high molecular 
weight gDNA resulted in underperformance of one master mix, while restriction
digestion of a low molecular weight sample also caused underestimation. Good
concordance (≤1.5-fold difference) was observed between chip and droplet formats.
Platform precision was in agreement with predicted Poisson error based on
partition number, but this was a minor component (<10%) of the total variance
when extraction was included. dPCR offers a robust reproducible method for DNA
measurement; however, as a predominant source of error, the process of DNA
extraction will need to be controlled with suitable calibrators to maximize
agreement between laboratories.

DOI: 10.1021/ac5041617 
PMID: 25646934  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Hum Gene Ther Methods. 2015 Feb;26(1):25-34. doi: 10.1089/hgtb.2014.138.

Standard free droplet digital polymerase chain reaction as a new tool for the
quality control of high-capacity adenoviral vectors in small-scale preparations.

Boehme P(1), Stellberger T, Solanki M, Zhang W, Schulz E, Bergmann T, Liu J,
Doerner J, Baiker AE, Ehrhardt A.

Author information: 
(1)1 Institute of Virology and Microbiology, Center for Biomedical Education and 
Research (ZBAF), Department of Human Medicine, Faculty of Health, University
Witten/Herdecke , Witten 58453, Germany .

High-capacity adenoviral vectors (HCAdVs) are promising tools for gene therapy as
well as for genetic engineering. However, one limitation of the HCAdV vector
system is the complex, time-consuming, and labor-intensive production process and
the following quality control procedure. Since HCAdVs are deleted for all viral
coding sequences, a helper virus (HV) is needed in the production process to
provide the sequences for all viral proteins in trans. For the purification
procedure of HCAdV, cesium chloride density gradient centrifugation is usually
performed followed by buffer exchange using dialysis or comparable methods.
However, performing these steps is technically difficult, potentially
error-prone, and not scalable. Here, we establish a new protocol for small-scale 
production of HCAdV based on commercially available adenovirus purification
systems and a standard method for the quality control of final HCAdV
preparations. For titration of final vector preparations, we established a
droplet digital polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR) that uses a standard
free-end-point PCR in small droplets of defined volume. By using different
probes, this method is capable of detecting and quantifying HCAdV and HV in one
reaction independent of reference material, rendering this method attractive for 
accurately comparing viral titers between different laboratories. In summary, we 
demonstrate that it is possible to produce HCAdV in a small scale of sufficient
quality and quantity to perform experiments in cell culture, and we established a
reliable protocol for vector titration based on ddPCR. Our method significantly
reduces time and required equipment to perform HCAdV production. In the future
the ddPCR technology could be advantageous for titration of other viral vectors
commonly used in gene therapy.

DOI: 10.1089/hgtb.2014.138 
PMCID: PMC4337465
PMID: 25640117  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Plant Methods. 2014 Dec 31;10(1):42. doi: 10.1186/s13007-014-0042-6. eCollection 
2014.

Reverse transcriptase droplet digital PCR shows high resilience to PCR inhibitors
from plant, soil and water samples.

Rački N(1), Dreo T(1), Gutierrez-Aguirre I(1), Blejec A(1), Ravnikar M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Systems Biology, National Institute of
Biology, Večna pot 111, SI-1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia.

BACKGROUND: Detection and quantification of plant pathogens in the presence of
inhibitory substances can be a challenge especially with plant and environmental 
samples. Real-time quantitative PCR has enabled high-throughput detection and
quantification of pathogens; however, its quantitative use is linked to
standardized reference materials, and its sensitivity to inhibitors can lead to
lower quantification accuracy. Droplet digital PCR has been proposed as a method 
to overcome these drawbacks. Its absolute quantification does not rely on
standards and its tolerance to inhibitors has been demonstrated mostly in
clinical samples. Such features would be of great use in agricultural and
environmental fields, therefore our study compared the performance of droplet
digital PCR method when challenged with inhibitors common to plant and
environmental samples and compared it with quantitative PCR.
RESULTS: Transfer of an existing Pepper mild mottle virus assay from reverse
transcription real-time quantitative PCR to reverse transcription droplet digital
PCR was straight forward. When challenged with complex matrices (seeds, plants,
soil, wastewater) and selected purified inhibitors droplet digital PCR showed
higher resilience to inhibition for the quantification of an RNA virus (Pepper
mild mottle virus), compared to reverse transcription real-time quantitative PCR.
CONCLUSIONS: This study confirms the improved detection and quantification of the
PMMoV RT-ddPCR in the presence of inhibitors that are commonly found in samples
of seeds, plant material, soil, and wastewater. Together with absolute
quantification, independent of standard reference materials, this makes droplet
digital PCR a valuable tool for detection and quantification of pathogens in
inhibition prone samples.

DOI: 10.1186/s13007-014-0042-6 
PMCID: PMC4307183
PMID: 25628753 


801. J Biol Chem. 2015 Mar 13;290(11):6844-56. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M114.634451. Epub 2015
Jan 25.

Novel exons in the tbx5 gene locus generate protein isoforms with distinct
expression domains and function.

Yamak A(1), Georges RO(2), Sheikh-Hassani M(1), Morin M(2), Komati H(1), Nemer
M(3).

Author information: 
(1)From the Laboratory of Molecular Genetics and Cardiac Regeneration, Department
of Biochemistry, Microbiology, and Immunology, University of Ottawa, Ottawa,
Ontario K1N 6N5 and. (2)the Graduate Program in Molecular Biology, Institut de
Recherches Cliniques de Montréal (IRCM), Université de Montréal, Montréal, Québec
H2W 1R7, Canada. (3)From the Laboratory of Molecular Genetics and Cardiac
Regeneration, Department of Biochemistry, Microbiology, and Immunology,
University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario K1N 6N5 and the Graduate Program in
Molecular Biology, Institut de Recherches Cliniques de Montréal (IRCM),
Université de Montréal, Montréal, Québec H2W 1R7, Canada mona.nemer@uottawa.ca.

TBX5 is the gene mutated in Holt-Oram syndrome, an autosomal dominant disorder
with complex heart and limb deformities. Its protein product is a member of the
T-box family of transcription factors and an evolutionarily conserved
dosage-sensitive regulator of heart and limb development. Understanding TBX5
regulation is therefore of paramount importance. Here we uncover the existence of
novel exons and provide evidence that TBX5 activity may be extensively regulated 
through alternative splicing to produce protein isoforms with differing N- and
C-terminal domains. These isoforms are also present in human heart, indicative of
an evolutionarily conserved regulatory mechanism. The newly identified isoforms
have different transcriptional properties and can antagonize TBX5a target gene
activation. Droplet Digital PCR as well as immunohistochemistry with
isoform-specific antibodies reveal differential as well as overlapping expression
domains. In particular, we find that the predominant isoform in skeletal
myoblasts is Tbx5c, and we show that it is dramatically up-regulated in
differentiating myotubes and is essential for myotube formation. Mechanistically,
TBX5c antagonizes TBX5a activation of pro-proliferative signals such as IGF-1,
FGF-10, and BMP4. The results provide new insight into Tbx5 regulation and
function that will further our understanding of its role in health and disease.
The finding of new exons in the Tbx5 locus may also be relevant to mutational
screening especially in the 30% of Holt-Oram syndrome patients with no mutations 
in the known TBX5a exons.

© 2015 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M114.634451 
PMCID: PMC4358110
PMID: 25623069  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Int J Mol Sci. 2015 Jan 22;16(2):2386-402. doi: 10.3390/ijms16022386.

Quantitative expression analysis of APP pathway and tau phosphorylation-related
genes in the ICV STZ-induced non-human primate model of sporadic Alzheimer's
disease.

Park SJ(1), Kim YH(2), Nam GH(3), Choe SH(4), Lee SR(5), Kim SU(6), Kim JS(7),
Sim BW(8), Song BS(9), Jeong KJ(10), Lee Y(11), Park YI(12), Lee KM(13), Huh
JW(14), Chang KT(15).

Author information: 
(1)National Primate Research Center, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and
Biotechnology, Chungbuk 363-883, Korea. parksj@kribb.re.kr. (2)National Primate
Research Center, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology,
Chungbuk 363-883, Korea. kyh@kribb.re.kr. (3)National Primate Research Center,
Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Chungbuk 363-883,
Korea. nkh14@kribb.re.kr. (4)National Primate Research Center, Korea Research
Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Chungbuk 363-883, Korea.
csh91@kribb.re.kr. (5)National Primate Research Center, Korea Research Institute 
of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Chungbuk 363-883, Korea. srlee@kribb.re.kr.
(6)National Primate Research Center, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and
Biotechnology, Chungbuk 363-883, Korea. sunuk@kribb.re.kr. (7)National Primate
Research Center, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology,
Chungbuk 363-883, Korea. kimjs@kribb.re.kr. (8)National Primate Research Center, 
Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Chungbuk 363-883,
Korea. embryont@kribb.re.kr. (9)National Primate Research Center, Korea Research 
Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Chungbuk 363-883, Korea.
sbs6401@kribb.re.kr. (10)National Primate Research Center, Korea Research
Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Chungbuk 363-883, Korea.
nemo9426@kribb.re.kr. (11)National Primate Research Center, Korea Research
Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Chungbuk 363-883, Korea.
neurosci@kribb.re.kr. (12)Graduate School Department of Digital Media, Ewha
Womans University, Seoul 120-750, Korea. yipark@ewha.ac.kr. (13)Department of
Neurology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul 110-744, Korea.
kminlee@snu.ac.kr. (14)National Primate Research Center, Korea Research Institute
of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Chungbuk 363-883, Korea. huhjw@kribb.re.kr.
(15)National Primate Research Center, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and 
Biotechnology, Chungbuk 363-883, Korea. changkt@kribb.re.kr.

The accumulation and aggregation of misfolded proteins in the brain, such as
amyloid-β (Aβ) and hyperphosphorylated tau, is a neuropathological hallmark of
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Previously, we developed and validated a novel
non-human primate model for sporadic AD (sAD) research using
intracerebroventricular administration of streptozotocin (icv STZ). To date, no
characterization of AD-related genes in different brain regions has been
performed. Therefore, in the current study, the expression of seven amyloid
precursor protein (APP) pathway-related and five tau phosphorylation-related
genes was investigated by quantitative real-time PCR experiments, using two
matched-pair brain samples from control and icv STZ-treated cynomolgus monkeys.
The genes showed similar expression patterns within the control and icv
STZ-treated groups; however, marked differences in gene expression patterns were 
observed between the control and icv STZ-treated groups. Remarkably, other than
β-secretase (BACE1) and cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5), all the genes tested
showed similar expression patterns in AD models compared to controls, with
increased levels in the precuneus and occipital cortex. However, significant
changes in gene expression patterns were not detected in the frontal cortex,
hippocampus, or posterior cingulate. Based on these results, we conclude that APP
may be cleaved via the general metabolic mechanisms of increased α- and
γ-secretase levels, and that hyperphosphorylation of tau could be mediated by
elevated levels of tau protein kinase, specifically in the precuneus and
occipital cortex.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms16022386 
PMCID: PMC4346842
PMID: 25622254  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Reprod Sci. 2015 Jul;22(7):852-9. doi: 10.1177/1933719114565034. Epub 2015 Jan
23.

Chorioamnionitis Occurring in Women With Preterm Rupture of the Fetal Membranes
Is Associated With a Dynamic Increase in mRNAs Coding Cytokines in the Maternal
Circulation.

Stock O(1), Gordon L(2), Kapoor J(3), Walker SP(3), Whitehead C(3), Kaitu'u-Lino 
TJ(3), Pell G(3), Hannan NJ(3), Tong S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Translational Obstetrics Group,
University of Melbourne, Mercy Hospital for Women, Heidelberg, Victoria,
Australia owen.stock@unimelb.edu.au. (2)Murdoch Children's Research Institute,
The Royal Children's Hospital, Parkville, Victoria, Australia Australian Genome
Research Facility Ltd, The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute, Parkville, Victoria, 
Australia. (3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Translational Obstetrics 
Group, University of Melbourne, Mercy Hospital for Women, Heidelberg, Victoria,
Australia.

BACKGROUND: Preterm prelabor rupture of the fetal membranes (PPROM) is a
significant contributor to the morbidity and mortality of preterm birth,
particularly in the setting of chorioamnionitis. No sensitive or specific
diagnostic or predictive test currently exists for the accurate diagnosis of
chorioamnionitis. Our aim was to measure messenger RNA (mRNA) coding cytokines in
the maternal blood and examine whether they were increased in association with
chorioamnionitis at delivery.
METHODS/RESULTS: We performed a prospective cohort study of women recruited with 
PPROM at a mean gestational age of 28.9 weeks at risk of developing
chorioamnionitis. Blood was sampled from participants, and the expression of mRNA
coding for proinflammatory genes was measured in women with and without
chorioamnionitis at the time of delivery as well as gestation-matched healthy
controls. Expression was measured using quantitative polymerase chain reaction
(PCR) and also digital PCR. Interleukin 1β (IL1B) mRNA expression in maternal
blood was elevated in women with chorioamnionitis compared to gestation-matched
controls. Importantly, among women admitted with PPROM, digital PCR confirmed a
significant increase in IL1B expression in maternal blood in women with
chorioamnionitis compared to women without chorioamnionitis. Polymerase chain
reaction array revealed that CD14, nuclear factor of κ light polypeptide gene
enhancer in B-cells 1 (NFKB1), and tumor necrosis factor receptor super
family-interacting serine-threonine kinase 1 mRNA were significantly increased in
women with chorioamnionitis compared to controls. Digital PCR confirmed that
NFKB1 mRNA was significantly increased in patients with chorioamnionitis compared
to controls and that CD14 levels increased over time in patients with PPROM
having chorioamnionitis.
CONCLUSION: Measuring circulating proinflammatory mRNA in women with PPROM may
distinguish those with chorioamnionitis from those without, in turn providing
better targeted therapies and appropriate timing of delivery.

© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/1933719114565034 
PMCID: PMC4565477
PMID: 25616398  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Meta Gene. 2013 Nov 28;2:25-31. doi: 10.1016/j.mgene.2013.11.001. eCollection
2014.

Identification and expression analysis of a novel intragenic EFNB1 mutation
causing craniofrontonasal syndrome.

Chacon-Camacho OF(1), Arce-Gonzalez R(1), Villegas-Ruiz V(1), Pelcastre-Luna
E(1), Uría-Gómez CE(2), Granillo-Alvarez M(3), Zenteno JC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Institute of Ophthalmology "Conde de Valenciana",
Mexico City, Mexico. (2)Laboratorio de Genética, Facultad de Medicina, UAEM,
Toluca, State of Mexico, Mexico. (3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, HGZ
No. 76, Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, State of Mexico, Mexico.
(4)Department of Genetics, Institute of Ophthalmology "Conde de Valenciana",
Mexico City, Mexico ; Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, National
Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM), Mexico City, Mexico.

Craniofrontonasal syndrome (CFNS) is an X-linked disorder caused by mutations in 
the EFNB1 gene and characterized by distinctive craniofacial and digital
malformations. In contrast with most X-linked traits, female patients with CFNS
display a more severe phenotype than males. In this report, the clinical,
molecular and RNA expression analyses of a female subject with CFNS are
described. A novel c.445_449delGAGGG deletion in exon 3 of EFNB1 was demonstrated
in this patient. To assess the effect of this novel mutation at the transcript
level, the expression of EFNB1 mRNA was studied by quantitative RT-PCR. To our
knowledge, this is the first time that an EFNB1 transcript carrying a truncating 
mutation in exon 3 is demonstrated to undergo degradation by nonsense-mediated
mRNA decay. Our results expand the mutational spectrum of CFNS and add to the
functional consequences of truncating EFNB1 mutations.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mgene.2013.11.001 
PMCID: PMC4287793
PMID: 25606386 


805. Clin Chem. 2015 Mar;61(3):514-22. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2014.235457. Epub 2015
Jan 20.

Brain tumor mutations detected in cerebral spinal fluid.

Pan W(1), Gu W(2), Nagpal S(3), Gephart MH(4), Quake SR(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering. (2)Department of Bioengineering, Department of
Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of California-San Francisco, San
Francisco, CA. (3)Department of Neurology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA;
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, and quake@stanford.edu mghayden@stanford.edu.
(5)Department of Bioengineering, quake@stanford.edu mghayden@stanford.edu.

BACKGROUND: Detecting tumor-derived cell-free DNA (cfDNA) in the blood of brain
tumor patients is challenging, presumably owing to the blood-brain barrier.
Cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) may serve as an alternative "liquid biopsy" of brain 
tumors by enabling measurement of circulating DNA within CSF to characterize
tumor-specific mutations. Many aspects about the characteristics and
detectability of tumor mutations in CSF remain undetermined.
METHODS: We used digital PCR and targeted amplicon sequencing to quantify tumor
mutations in the cfDNA of CSF and plasma collected from 7 patients with solid
brain tumors. Also, we applied cancer panel sequencing to globally characterize
the somatic mutation profile from the CSF of 1 patient with suspected
leptomeningeal disease.
RESULTS: We detected tumor mutations in CSF samples from 6 of 7 patients with
solid brain tumors. The concentration of the tumor mutant alleles varied widely
between patients, from <5 to nearly 3000 copies/mL CSF. We identified 7 somatic
mutations from the CSF of a patient with leptomeningeal disease by use of cancer 
panel sequencing, and the result was concordant with genetic testing on the
primary tumor biopsy.
CONCLUSIONS: Tumor mutations were detectable in cfDNA from the CSF of patients
with different primary and metastatic brain tumors. We designed 2 strategies to
characterize tumor mutations in CSF for potential clinical diagnosis: the
targeted detection of known driver mutations to monitor brain metastasis and the 
global characterization of genomic aberrations to direct personalized cancer
care.

© 2014 American Association for Clinical Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2014.235457 
PMID: 25605683  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2015 Mar;407(7):1831-40. doi: 10.1007/s00216-015-8458-z. Epub 
2015 Jan 20.

DNA copy number concentration measured by digital and droplet digital
quantitative PCR using certified reference materials.

Corbisier P(1), Pinheiro L, Mazoua S, Kortekaas AM, Chung PY, Gerganova T,
Roebben G, Emons H, Emslie K.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Reference Materials and Measurements, Joint Research Centre,
European Commission, Retieseweg 111, 2440, Geel, Belgium,
philippe.corbisier@ec.europa.eu.

The value assignment for properties of six certified reference materials
(ERM-AD623a-f), each containing a plasmid DNA solution ranging from 1 million to 
10 copies per μL, by using digital PCR (dPCR) with the BioMark™ HD System
(Fluidigm) has been verified by applying droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) using the
QX100 system (Bio-Rad). One of the critical factors in the measurement of copy
number concentrations by digital PCR is the partition volume. Therefore, we
determined the average droplet volume by optical microscopy, revealing an average
droplet volume that is 8 % smaller than the droplet volume used as the defined
parameter in the QuantaSoft software version 1.3.2.0 (Bio-Rad) to calculate the
copy number concentration. This observation explains why copy number
concentrations estimated with ddPCR and using an average droplet volume
predefined in the QuantaSoft software were systematically lower than those
measured by dPCR, creating a significant bias between the values obtained by
these two techniques. The difference was not significant anymore when the
measured droplet volume of 0.834 nL was used to estimate copy number
concentrations. A new version of QuantaSoft software (version 1.6.6.0320), which 
has since been released with Bio-Rad's new QX200 systems and QX100 upgrades, uses
a droplet volume of 0.85 nL as a defined parameter to calculate copy number
concentration.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-015-8458-z 
PMCID: PMC4336415
PMID: 25600685  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Mob DNA. 2014 Dec 31;5(1):30. doi: 10.1186/s13100-014-0030-4. eCollection 2014.

A droplet digital PCR detection method for rare L1 insertions in tumors.

White TB(1), McCoy AM(2), Streva VA(3), Fenrich J(4), Deininger PL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Tulane Cancer Center, 1430 Tulane Avenue, New Orleans, LA 70112 USA.
(2)Bio-Rad Laboratories, 750 Alfred Nobel Drive, Hercules, CA 94547 USA ; Present
Address: Eureka Genomics, 2000 Alfred Nobel Drive, Hercules, CA 94547 USA.
(3)Tulane Cancer Center, 1430 Tulane Avenue, New Orleans, LA 70112 USA ; Present 
Address: Division of Infectious Diseases, Boston Children's Hospital and Harvard 
Medical School, 300 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA 02115 USA. (4)Bio-Rad
Laboratories, 750 Alfred Nobel Drive, Hercules, CA 94547 USA.

BACKGROUND: The active human mobile element, long interspersed element 1 (L1)
currently populates human genomes in excess of 500,000 copies per haploid genome.
Through its mobility via a process called target primed reverse transcription
(TPRT), L1 mobilization has resulted in over 100 de novo cases of human disease
and has recently been associated with various cancer types. Large advances in
high-throughput sequencing (HTS) technology have allowed for an increased
understanding of the role of L1 in human cancer; however, researchers are still
limited by the ability to validate potentially rare L1 insertion events detected 
by HTS that may occur in only a small fraction of tumor cells. Additionally, HTS 
detection of rare events varies greatly as a function of read depth, and new
tools for de novo element discovery are needed to fill in gaps created by HTS.
RESULTS: We have employed droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) to detect rare L1 loci in
mosaic human genomes. Our assay allows for the detection of L1 insertions as rare
as one cell in every 10,000.
CONCLUSIONS: ddPCR represents a robust method to be used alongside HTS techniques
for detecting, validating and quantitating rare L1 insertion events in tumors and
other tissues.

DOI: 10.1186/s13100-014-0030-4 
PMCID: PMC4297411
PMID: 25598847 


808. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2014 Nov;50(11):826-32.

[Effect of simvastatin on retinal Bcl-2/Bax expression and cell apoptosis in rats
with ischemia-reperfusion injury].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang Y(1), Yan H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, General Hospital, Tianjin Medical University,
Tianjin 300052, China. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, General Hospital, Tianjin 
Medical University, Tianjin 300052, China. Email: phuayan2000@163.com.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the protective mechanism of simvastatin on retina
ischemia-reperfusion injury in a rat model.
METHODS: It was a experiment study.One hundred and sixty-five adult male SD rats 
were randomly divided into three groups using digital table method, normal
control group (CON, 55 rats), ischemia-reperfusion model group (MOD, 55 rats) and
the medicine of simvastatin group (SIM, 55 rats).Each group was divided into five
points in time of 4 hours, 8 hours, 16 hours, 24 hours and 48 hours, and there
were 11 rats in each point. The right cephalic artery of each rat was clipped in 
model group and simvastatin group, but it was exposed in control group.
Expression of Bcl-2 and Bax protein were determined by the immunohistochemical
method, the number of cell apoptosis in retina were examined by the TUNEL method 
and express of Bcl-2 and Bax mRNA were measured by the real-time PCR method. The 
expression of proteins and mRNAs of Bcl-2 and Bax and also apoptosis of the rat
retinas in each group at corresponding time point are compared using single
factor analysis of variance and LSD-t test.
RESULTS: Expression of Bcl-2 protein in model group began to decline at 4 h,
reached the lowest at 24 h, with the data of (0.192 ± 0.011), (0.192 ± 0.015) ,
(0.189 ± 0.015), (0.183 ± 0.012) and (0.187 ± 0.010) .Expression of Bcl-2 protein
in simvastatin group were higher than model group at each time point, with the
information of (0.208 ± 0.011), (0.220 ± 0.011) , (0.221 ± 0.014), (0.228 ±
0.007) and (0.206 ± 0.015). The numbers were statistically significant at
corresponding time point in each group (F(4, 8, 16, 24, 48) = 8.079, 9.005,
9.904, 35.563, 8.810, P < 0.05). Expression of Bax protein in model group began
to increased at 4 h, reached the highest at 24 h, with the data of (0.255 ±
0.010), (0.261 ± 0.033), (0.276 ± 0.025), (0.324 ± 0.037) and (0.234 ± 0.018).
Expression of Bax protein in simvastatin group were lower than model group at
each time point, with the information of (0.222 ± 0.012), (0.219 ± 0.017), (0.223
± 0.008), (0.232 ± 0.021) and (0.214 ± 0.008). The numbers were statistically
significant at corresponding time point in each group (F(4, 8, 16, 24, 48) =
16.601, 13.525, 10.303, 25.849, 13.805, P < 0.05). AI of retina in model group
began to increased at 4 h, reached the highest at 24 h, with the data of (11.771 
± 0.722), (13.705 ± 0.512), (15.533 ± 0.370), (21.210 ± 1.221) and (17.660 ±
0.414). AI of retina in simvastatin group were lower than model group at each
time point, with the information of (9.061 ± 0.289), (11.717 ± 0.565), (13.506 ± 
0.541), (16.586 ± 0.488) and (14.428 ± 0.559). The numbers were statistically
significant at corresponding time point in each group (F(4, 8, 16, 24, 48) =
87.096, 232.245, 575.564, 389.205, 771.658, P < 0.05). Bcl-2 mRNA in model group 
were lower than in control group at each time point, with the data of (0.360 ±
0.017), (0.232 ± 0.066), (0.314 ± 0.012), (0.179 ± 0.019) and (0.357 ± 0.084).
But Bcl-2 mRNA in simvastatin group were higher than those in model group, with
the information of (1.718 ± 0.247), (1.981 ± 0.317), (1.309 ± 0.031), (1.289 ±
0.209) and (0.684 ± 0.071). The differences had statistical significance at
corresponding time point in each group (F(4, 8, 16, 24, 48) = 112.934, 109.750,
3534.800, 112.428, 128.140, P < 0.05). And Bax mRNA in the model group were
higher than those in control group at each time point, with the data of (2.140 ± 
0.288), (3.189 ± 0.492), (2.896 ± 0.466), (2.392 ± 0.119) and (1.789 ± 0.169).
However, Bax mRNA in simvastatin group were lower than those in model group, with
the information of (0.658 ± 0.197), (1.746 ± 0.315), (0.670 ± 0.221), (0.952 ±
0.164) and (0.575 ± 0.174). The differences had statistical significance at
corresponding time point in each group (F(4, 8, 16, 24, 48) = 74.115, 54.504,
81.271, 243.743, 97.163, P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Simvastatin has protective effects on retinal ischemia reperfusion
injury, and the mechanism is closely related to inhibiting retinal cell apoptosis
by adjusting the express of Bcl-2 and Bax.


PMID: 25582208  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2015 Feb;407(6):1533-43. doi: 10.1007/s00216-014-8405-4. Epub 
2015 Jan 13.

Isothermal circular-strand-displacement polymerization of DNA and microRNA in
digital microfluidic devices.

Giuffrida MC(1), Zanoli LM, D'Agata R, Finotti A, Gambari R, Spoto G.

Author information: 
(1)I.N.B.B. Consortium, Viale delle Medaglie D'Oro, 305, 00136, Roma, Italy.

Nucleic-acid amplification is a crucial step in nucleic-acid-sequence-detection
assays. The use of digital microfluidic devices to miniaturize amplification
techniques reduces the required sample volume and the analysis time and offers
new possibilities for process automation and integration in a single device. The 
recently introduced droplet polymerase-chain-reaction (PCR) amplification methods
require repeated cycles of two or three temperature-dependent steps during the
amplification of the nucleic-acid target sequence. In contrast, low-temperature
isothermal-amplification methods have no need for thermal cycling, thus requiring
simplified microfluidic-device features. Here, the combined use of digital
microfluidics and molecular-beacon (MB)-assisted isothermal
circular-strand-displacement polymerization (ICSDP) to detect microRNA-210
sequences is described. MicroRNA-210 has been described as the most consistently 
and predominantly upregulated hypoxia-inducible factor. The nmol L(-1)-pmol L(-1)
detection capabilities of the method were first tested by targeting
single-stranded DNA sequences from the genetically modified Roundup Ready
soybean. The ability of the droplet-ICSDP method to discriminate between
full-matched, single-mismatched, and unrelated sequences was also investigated.
The detection of a range of nmol L(-1)-pmol L(-1) microRNA-210 solutions
compartmentalized in nanoliter-sized droplets was performed, establishing the
ability of the method to detect as little as 10(-18) mol of microRNA target
sequences compartmentalized in 20 nL droplets. The suitability of the method for 
biological samples was tested by detecting microRNA-210 from transfected K562
cells.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-014-8405-4 
PMID: 25579461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Ophthalmology. 2015 Apr;122(4):840-50. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2014.11.021. Epub
2015 Jan 9.

Detection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis genome in vitreous fluid of eyes with
multifocal serpiginoid choroiditis.

Bansal R(1), Sharma K(2), Gupta A(3), Sharma A(4), Singh MP(5), Gupta V(1),
Mulkutkar S(1), Dogra M(1), Dogra MR(1), Kamal S(1), Sharma SP(1), Fiorella
PD(6).

Author information: 
(1)Advanced Eye Centre, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and
Research, Chandigarh, India. (2)Department of Microbiology, Post Graduate
Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, India. (3)Advanced Eye
Centre, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh,
India. Electronic address: dramodgupta@gmail.com. (4)Department of Internal
Medicine, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, 
India. (5)Department of Virology, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education
and Research, Chandigarh, India. (6)Bureau of Health Laboratories, Jacksonville, 
Florida.

PURPOSE: To compare 3 different molecular techniques to detect the Mycobacterium 
tuberculosis genome in vitreous fluid of eyes with multifocal serpiginoid
choroiditis (MSC).
DESIGN: Prospective, interventional case series.
PARTICIPANTS: Eleven patients (11 eyes) with active MSC in at least 1 eye
underwent diagnostic pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) between October 2012 and
December 2013.
METHODS: Vitreous fluid samples were subjected to multitargeted polymerase chain 
reaction (PCR) for a M. tuberculosis assay, the Gene Xpert MTB/RIF assay
(Cepheid, Sunnyvale, CA), and a line probe assay (GenoType MTBDRplus; Hain
Lifescience, GmbH, Nehren, Germany). The samples with positive results were
subjected to rpoB gene sequencing to demonstrate rifampicin resistance. The
clinical details, digital fundus imaging, and treatment details and outcomes also
were noted.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Detection of the M. tuberculosis genome and rifampicin
resistance in the vitreous samples.
RESULTS: Of the 11 eyes subjected to PPV, the multitargeted PCR results for
tuberculosis were positive for 10 eyes, the MTBDRplus assay results were positive
in 6 eyes, and the Gene Xpert MTB/RIF assay results were positive in 4 eyes.
Rifampicin resistance was detected in 3 eyes by rpoB gene sequencing, in 3 eyes
by the MTBDRplus assay, and in 1 eye by the Gene Xpert MTB/RIF assay.
CONCLUSIONS: We detected the M. tuberculosis genome in the vitreous fluid of eyes
with MSC using 3 different molecular techniques. Rifampicin resistance was
detected for the first time in eyes with MSC.

Copyright © 2015 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2014.11.021 
PMID: 25578256  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Front Plant Sci. 2014 Dec 16;5:698. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2014.00698. eCollection
2014.

Global transcriptome analysis of developing chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) seeds.

Pradhan S(1), Bandhiwal N(1), Shah N(1), Kant C(1), Gaur R(1), Bhatia S(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Plant Genome Research New Delhi, India.

Understanding developmental processes, especially in non-model crop plants, is
extremely important in order to unravel unique mechanisms regulating development.
Chickpea (C. arietinum L.) seeds are especially valued for their high
carbohydrate and protein content. Therefore, in order to elucidate the mechanisms
underlying seed development in chickpea, deep sequencing of transcriptomes from
four developmental stages was undertaken. In this study, next generation
sequencing platform was utilized to sequence the transcriptome of four distinct
stages of seed development in chickpea. About 1.3 million reads were generated
which were assembled into 51,099 unigenes by merging the de novo and reference
assemblies. Functional annotation of the unigenes was carried out using the
Uniprot, COG and KEGG databases. RPKM based digital expression analysis revealed 
specific gene activities at different stages of development which was validated
using Real time PCR analysis. More than 90% of the unigenes were found to be
expressed in at least one of the four seed tissues. DEGseq was used to determine 
differentially expressing genes which revealed that only 6.75% of the unigenes
were differentially expressed at various stages. Homology based comparison
revealed 17.5% of the unigenes to be putatively seed specific. Transcription
factors were predicted based on HMM profiles built using TF sequences from five
legume plants and analyzed for their differential expression during progression
of seed development. Expression analysis of genes involved in biosynthesis of
important secondary metabolites suggested that chickpea seeds can serve as a good
source of antioxidants. Since transcriptomes are a valuable source of molecular
markers like simple sequence repeats (SSRs), about 12,000 SSRs were mined in
chickpea seed transcriptome and few of them were validated. In conclusion, this
study will serve as a valuable resource for improved chickpea breeding.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2014.00698 
PMCID: PMC4267183
PMID: 25566273 


812. Front Microbiol. 2014 Dec 23;5:724. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2014.00724. eCollection
2014.

Emerging methods to study bacteriophage infection at the single-cell level.

Dang VT(1), Sullivan MB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona Tucson, 
AZ, USA. (2)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona
Tucson, AZ, USA ; Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of
Arizona Tucson, AZ, USA.

Bacteria and their viruses (phages) are abundant across diverse ecosystems and
their interactions influence global biogeochemical cycles and incidence of
disease. Problematically, both classical and metagenomic methods insufficiently
assess the host specificity of phages and phage-host infection dynamics in
nature. Here we review emerging methods to study phage-host interaction and
infection dynamics with a focus on those that offer resolution at the single-cell
level. These methods leverage ever-increasing sequence data to identify virus
signals from single-cell amplified genome datasets or to produce primers/probes
to target particular phage-bacteria pairs (digital PCR and phageFISH), even in
complex communities. All three methods enable study of phage infection of
uncultured bacteria from environmental samples, while the latter also
discriminates between phage-host interaction outcomes (e.g., lytic, chronic,
lysogenic) in model systems. Together these techniques enable quantitative,
spatiotemporal studies of phage-bacteria interactions from environmental samples 
of any ecosystem, which will help elucidate and predict the ecological and
evolutionary impacts of specific phage-host pairings in nature.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2014.00724 
PMCID: PMC4274963
PMID: 25566233 


813. Cancer Genomics Proteomics. 2015 Jan-Feb;12(1):31-7.

Usefulness of nanofluidic digital PCR arrays to quantify T790M mutation in
EGFR-mutant lung adenocarcinoma.

Isobe K(1), Hata Y(2), Tochigi N(3), Kaburaki K(1), Kobayashi H(1), Makino T(2), 
Otsuka H(2), Ishida F(1), Hirota N(1), Sano G(1), Sugino K(1), Sakamoto S(1),
Takai Y(1), Shibuya K(3), Iyoda A(2), Homma S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Respiratory Medicine, Toho University School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan. (2)Division Chest Surgery, Toho University School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan. (3)Department of Surgical Pathology, Toho University School of Medicine,
Tokyo, Japan.

AIM: The present pilot study assessed the usefulness of nanofluidic digital
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) arrays in epidermal growth factor receptor
(EGFR)-mutant lung adenocarcinoma after tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI)
resistance.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We enrolled 12 patients with primary lung adenocarcinoma
with sensitive EGFR mutation-confirmed T790M status by re-biopsy after TKI
resistance. Nanofluidic digital PCR arrays were used to quantify T790M in genomic
DNA from the pre-treatment primary site and in serum cell-free DNA (cfDNA).
RESULTS: On digital PCR, quantified T790M at the pre-treatment primary site was
higher in re-biopsy-positive T790M patients (n=4) than in re-biopsy-negative
patients (n=8) (0.78%±0.36% vs. 0.07%±0.09%, p<0.01). T790M at the pre-treatment 
primary site correlated with progression-free survival (PFS) after gefitinib
therapy (r=0.67, p=0.016).
CONCLUSION: Use of digital PCR to quantify T790M at the primary site of
EGFR-mutant lung adenocarcinoma predicted T790M emergence in re-biopsies after
TKI resistance and PFS after gefitinib therapy.

Copyright© 2015, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. John G.
Delinasios), All rights reserved.


PMID: 25560642  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Microarrays (Basel). 2015 Apr 2;4(2):188-95. doi: 10.3390/microarrays4020188.

Tissue Microarray Technology for Molecular Applications: Investigation of
Cross-Contamination between Tissue Samples Obtained from the Same Punching
Device.

Vassella E(1), Galván JA(2), Zlobec I(3).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Research Unit (TRU), Institute of Pathology, University of Bern,
Murtenstrasse 31, Room L313, CH-3010 Bern, Switzerland.
erik.vassella@pathology.unibe.ch. (2)Translational Research Unit (TRU), Institute
of Pathology, University of Bern, Murtenstrasse 31, Room L313, CH-3010 Bern,
Switzerland. jose.galvan@pathology.unibe.ch. (3)Translational Research Unit
(TRU), Institute of Pathology, University of Bern, Murtenstrasse 31, Room L313,
CH-3010 Bern, Switzerland. inti.zlobec@pathology.unibe.ch.

BACKGROUND: Tissue microarray (TMA) technology allows rapid visualization of
molecular markers by immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. In addition,
TMA instrumentation has the potential to assist in other applications: punches
taken from donor blocks can be placed directly into tubes and used for nucleic
acid analysis by PCR approaches. However, the question of possible
cross-contamination between samples punched with the same device has frequently
been raised but never addressed.
METHODS: Two experiments were performed. (1) A block from mycobacterium
tuberculosis (TB) positive tissue and a second from an uninfected patient were
aligned side-by-side in an automated tissue microarrayer. Four 0.6 mm punches
were cored from each sample and placed inside their corresponding tube. Between
coring of each donor block, a mechanical cleaning step was performed by insertion
of the puncher into a paraffin block. This sequence of coring and cleaning was
repeated three times, alternating between positive and negative blocks. A
fragment from the 6110 insertion sequence specific for mycobacterium tuberculosis
was analyzed; (2) Four 0.6 mm punches were cored from three KRAS mutated
colorectal cancer blocks, alternating with three different wild-type tissues
using the same TMA instrument (sequence of coring: G12D, WT, G12V, WT, G13D and
WT). Mechanical cleaning of the device between each donor block was made.
Mutation analysis by pyrosequencing was carried out. This sequence of coring was 
repeated manually without any cleaning step between blocks.
RESULTS/DISCUSSION: In both analyses, all alternating samples showed the expected
result (samples 1, 3 and 5: positive or mutated, samples 2, 4 and 6: negative or 
wild-type). Similar results were obtained without cleaning step. These findings
suggest that no cross-contamination of tissue samples occurs when donor blocks
are punched using the same device, however a cleaning step is nonetheless
recommended. Our result supports the use of TMA technology as an accessory to
PCR applications.

DOI: 10.3390/microarrays4020188 
PMCID: PMC4996394
PMID: 27600219 


815. Crit Rev Oncog. 2015;20(5-6):357-71. doi: 10.1615/CritRevOncog.v20.i5-6.90.

Liquid Biopsies in the Screening of Oncogenic Mutations in NSCLC and its
Application in Targeted Therapy.

Tang JH(1), Chia D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, UCLA David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los
Angeles, CA.

Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) still dominates cancer-related deaths in
America. Despite this, new discoveries and advancements in technology are helping
with the detection and treatment of NSCLC. The discovery of circulating tumor DNA
in blood and other biofluids is essential for the creation of a DNA biomarker.
Limitations in technology and sequencing have stunted assay development, but with
recent advancements in the next-generation sequencing, droplet digital PCR, and
EFIRM, the detection of mutations in biofluids has become possible with
reasonable sensitivity and specificity. These methods have been applied to the
detection of mutations in NSCLC by measuring the levels of circulating tumor DNA.
ALK fusion genes along with mutations in EGFR and KRAS have been shown to
correlate to tumor size and metastasis. These methods allow for noninvasive,
affordable, and efficient diagnoses of oncogenic mutations that overcome the
issues of traditional biopsies. These issues include tumor heterogeneity and
early detection of cancers with asymptomatic early stages. Early detection and
treatment remain the best way to ensure survival. This review aims to describe
these new technologies along with their application in mutation detection in
NSCLC in order to proactively utilize targeted anticancer therapy.

DOI: 10.1615/CritRevOncog.v20.i5-6.90 
PMID: 27279235 


816. Water Res. 2015 Mar 1;70:337-49. doi: 10.1016/j.watres.2014.12.008. Epub 2014 Dec
16.

Droplet digital PCR for simultaneous quantification of general and
human-associated fecal indicators for water quality assessment.

Cao Y(1), Raith MR(2), Griffith JF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Southern California Costal Water Research Project Authority, Costa Mesa, CA,
USA. Electronic address: yipingc@sccwrp.org. (2)Southern California Costal Water 
Research Project Authority, Costa Mesa, CA, USA. (3)Southern California Costal
Water Research Project Authority, Costa Mesa, CA, USA. Electronic address:
johng@sccwrp.org.

Despite wide application to beach water monitoring and microbial source
identification, results produced by quantitative PCR (qPCR) methods are subject
to bias introduced by reliance on quantitative standards. Digital PCR technology 
provides direct, standards-free quantification and may potentially alleviate or
greatly reduce other qPCR limitations such as difficulty in multiplexing and
susceptibility to PCR inhibition. This study examined the efficacy of employing a
duplex droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) assay that simultaneously quantifies
Enterococcus spp. and the human fecal-associated HF183 marker for water quality
assessment. Duplex ddPCR performance was evaluated side-by-side with qPCR and
simplex ddPCR using reference material and 131 fecal and water samples. Results
for fecal and water samples were highly correlated between ddPCR and simplex qPCR
(coefficients > 0.93, p < 0.001). Duplexing Enterococcus and HF183 in qPCR led to
competition and resulted in non-detection or underestimation of the target with
low concentration relative to the other, while results produced by simplex and
duplex ddPCR were consistent and often indistinguishable from one another. ddPCR 
showed greater tolerance for inhibition, with no discernable effect on
quantification at inhibitor concentrations one to two orders of magnitude higher 
than that tolerated by qPCR. Overall, ddPCR also exhibited improved precision,
higher run-to-run repeatability, similar diagnostic sensitivity and specificity
on the HF183 marker, but a lower upper limit of quantification than qPCR. Digital
PCR has the potential to become a reliable and economical alternative to qPCR for
recreational water monitoring and fecal source identification. Findings from this
study may also be of interest to other aspects of water research such as
detection of pathogens and antibiotic resistance genes.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.watres.2014.12.008 
PMID: 25543243  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Environ Toxicol Pharmacol. 2015 Jan;39(1):300-6. doi: 10.1016/j.etap.2014.11.024.
Epub 2014 Dec 5.

Digital gene expression profiling (DGE) of cadmium-treated Drosophila
melanogaster.

Guan D(1), Mo F(1), Han Y(1), Gu W(1), Zhang M(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Sciences, Shaanxi Normal University, Xi'an 710062, China.
(2)College of Life Sciences, Shaanxi Normal University, Xi'an 710062, China.
Electronic address: zhangmin451@snnu.edu.cn.

Cadmium is highly toxic and can cause oxidative damage, metabolic disorders, and 
reduced lifespan and fertility in animals. In this study, we investigated the
effects of cadmium in Drosophila melanogaster, performing transcriptome analysis 
by using tag-based digital gene expression (DGE) profiling. Among 1970 candidate 
genes, 1443 were up-regulated and 527 were down-regulated following cadmium
exposure. Using Gene Ontology analysis, we found that cadmium stress affects
three processes: transferase activity, stress response, and the cell cycle.
Furthermore, we identified five differentially expressed genes (confirmed by
real-time PCR) involved in all three processes: Ald, Cdc2, skpA, tefu, and Pvr.
Pathway analysis revealed that these genes were involved in the cell cycle
pathway and fat digestion and absorption pathway. This study reveals the gene
expression response to cadmium stress in Drosophila, it provides insights into
the mechanisms of this response, and it could contribute to our understanding of 
cadmium toxicity in humans.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.etap.2014.11.024 
PMID: 25543212  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. PLoS One. 2014 Dec 26;9(12):e116054. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0116054.
eCollection 2014.

An integrative analysis of PIK3CA mutation, PTEN, and INPP4B expression in terms 
of trastuzumab efficacy in HER2-positive breast cancer.

Sueta A(1), Yamamoto Y(1), Yamamoto-Ibusuki M(2), Hayashi M(2), Takeshita T(2),
Yamamoto S(2), Iwase H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Breast and Endocrine Surgery, Kumamoto University Graduate
School of Medical Science, 1-1-1, Honjo, Chuo-ku, Kumamoto, 860-8556, Japan;
Department of Molecular-Targeting Therapy for Breast Cancer, Kumamoto University 
Hospital, 1-1-1, Honjo, Chuo-ku, Kumamoto, 860-8556, Japan. (2)Department of
Breast and Endocrine Surgery, Kumamoto University Graduate School of Medical
Science, 1-1-1, Honjo, Chuo-ku, Kumamoto, 860-8556, Japan.

The phosphoinositide-3-kinase (PI3K) pathway is commonly deregulated in breast
cancer through several mechanisms, including PIK3CA mutation and loss of
phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) and inositol polyphosphate 4-phosphatase-II
(INPP4B). We aimed to evaluate the predictive relevance of these biomarkers to
trastuzumab efficacy in HER2-positive disease. We evaluated the effect of
trastuzumab in 43 breast cancer patients with HER2-overexpression who received
neoadjuvant treatment. PIK3CA mutation was examined by direct sequencing and
digital PCR assay, and PIK3CA copy number was assessed by digital PCR assay of
pretreatment tissues. PTEN, pAkt, and INPP4B were assessed by
immunohistochemistry. Direct sequencing detected mutant DNA in 21% of all
patients, but the incidence increased to 49% using digital PCR. The pathological 
complete response (pCR) rate in patients with PIK3CA mutations was 29% compared
with 67% for those without PIK3CA mutations (P = 0.093), when the mutation was
defined as positive if the mutant proportion was more than 10% of total genetic
content by digital PCR. Low PTEN expression was associated with less pCR compared
to high expression (33% versus 72%, P = 0.034). There were no significant
associations of PIK3CA copy number, pAKt, or INPP4B with trastuzumab efficacy. In
multivariate analysis, activation of the PI3K pathway due to either PIK3CA
mutation or low PTEN were related to poorer response to trastuzumab (OR of
predictive pCR was 0.11, 95%CI; 0.03-0.48). In conclusion, activating the PI3K
pathway is associated with low pCR to trastuzumab-based treatment in
HER2-positive breast cancer. Combined analysis of PIK3CA mutation and PTEN
expression may serve as critical indicators to identify patients unlikely to
respond to trastuzumab.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0116054 
PMCID: PMC4277449
PMID: 25542038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. BMC Genomics. 2014 Dec 23;15:1174. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-15-1174.

Quantification of epigenetic biomarkers: an evaluation of established and
emerging methods for DNA methylation analysis.

Redshaw N(1), Huggett JF(2), Taylor MS(3), Foy CA(4), Devonshire AS(5).

Author information: 
(1)LGC, Queens Road, Teddington, Middlesex, TW11 0LY, UK.
Nicholas.Redshaw@lgcgroup.com. (2)LGC, Queens Road, Teddington, Middlesex, TW11
0LY, UK. Jim.Huggett@lgcgroup.com. (3)Medical and Developmental Genetics Section,
MRC Human Genetics Unit, IGMM, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
martin.taylor@igmm.ed.ac.uk. (4)LGC, Queens Road, Teddington, Middlesex, TW11
0LY, UK. Carole.Foy@lgcgroup.com. (5)LGC, Queens Road, Teddington, Middlesex,
TW11 0LY, UK. Alison.Devonshire@lgcgroup.com.

BACKGROUND: DNA methylation is an important epigenetic mechanism in several human
diseases, most notably cancer. The quantitative analysis of DNA methylation
patterns has the potential to serve as diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers,
however, there is currently a lack of consensus regarding the optimal
methodologies to quantify methylation status. To address this issue we compared
five analytical methods: (i) MethyLight qPCR, (ii) MethyLight digital PCR (dPCR),
methylation-sensitive and -dependent restriction enzyme (MSRE/MDRE) digestion
followed by (iii) qPCR or (iv) dPCR, and (v) bisulfite amplicon next generation
sequencing (NGS). The techniques were evaluated for linearity, accuracy and
precision.
RESULTS: MethyLight qPCR displayed the best linearity across the range of tested 
samples. Observed methylation measured by MethyLight- and MSRE/MDRE-qPCR and
-dPCR were not significantly different to expected values whilst bisulfite
amplicon NGS analysis over-estimated methylation content. Bisulfite amplicon NGS 
showed good precision, whilst the lower precision of qPCR and dPCR analysis
precluded discrimination of differences of < 25% in methylation status. A novel
dPCR MethyLight assay is also described as a potential method for absolute
quantification that simultaneously measures both sense and antisense DNA strands 
following bisulfite treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings comprise a comprehensive benchmark for the quantitative
accuracy of key methods for methylation analysis and demonstrate their
applicability to the quantification of circulating tumour DNA biomarkers by using
sample concentrations that are representative of typical clinical isolates.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-15-1174 
PMCID: PMC4523014
PMID: 25539843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2015 Jul;54(7):1308-16. doi: 10.1093/rheumatology/keu479. 
Epub 2014 Dec 23.

Increased expression of chemerin in endothelial cells due to Fli1 deficiency may 
contribute to the development of digital ulcers in systemic sclerosis.

Akamata K(1), Asano Y(2), Taniguchi T(1), Yamashita T(1), Saigusa R(1), Nakamura 
K(1), Noda S(1), Aozasa N(1), Toyama T(1), Takahashi T(1), Ichimura Y(1), Sumida 
H(1), Tada Y(1), Sugaya M(1), Kadono T(1), Sato S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Tokyo Graduate School of Medicine,
Tokyo, Japan. (2)Department of Dermatology, University of Tokyo Graduate School
of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan yasano-tky@umin.ac.jp.

OBJECTIVES: Chemerin is a member of adipocytokines with a chemoattractant effect 
on plasmacytoid dendritic cells and macrophages and pro-angiogenic properties. We
investigated the potential role of chemerin in the development of SSc.
METHODS: Chemerin expression was evaluated by immunostaining and/or real-time
quantitative RT-PCR in human and murine skin. The mechanisms regulating chemerin 
expression in dermal fibroblasts and endothelial cells were examined using the
gene silencing technique and chromatin immunoprecipitation. Serum chemerin levels
were determined by ELISA in 64 SSc patients and 19 healthy subjects.
RESULTS: In SSc lesional skin, chemerin was up-regulated in small blood vessels, 
while it was down-regulated in fibroblasts surrounded with thickened collagen
bundles. The decreased expression of chemerin was significantly reversed by
TGF-β1 antisense oligonucleotide in cultured SSc dermal fibroblasts and chemerin 
expression was markedly decreased in dermal fibroblasts of bleomycin-treated
mice. Gene silencing of transcription factor Fli1, which binds to the chemerin
promoter, induced chemerin expression in human dermal microvascular endothelial
cells and Fli1(+/-) mice exhibited elevated chemerin expression in dermal blood
vessels. Serum chemerin levels inversely correlated with estimated glomerular
filtration rate in SSc patients with renal dysfunction. In SSc patients with
normal renal function, patients with digital ulcers had higher serum chemerin
levels than those without.
CONCLUSION: Chemerin is down-regulated in SSc dermal fibroblasts by autocrine
TGF-β, while it is up-regulated in SSc dermal blood vessels through endothelial
Fli1 deficiency. Increased chemerin expression in dermal blood vessels may be
associated with the development of digital ulcers in SSc.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British 
Society for Rheumatology. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/keu479 
PMID: 25539827  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Plant Cell Physiol. 2015 Feb;56(2):311-21. doi: 10.1093/pcp/pcu210. Epub 2014 Dec
19.

Identification of mRNAs that move over long distances using an RNA-Seq analysis
of Arabidopsis/Nicotiana benthamiana heterografts.

Notaguchi M(1), Higashiyama T(2), Suzuki T(3).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Science, Nagoya University, Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya,
464-8602 Japan ERATO Higashiyama Live-holonics Project, Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku,
Nagoya, 464-8602 Japan notaguchi.michitaka@b.mbox.nagoya-u.ac.jp. (2)Graduate
School of Science, Nagoya University, Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya, 464-8602
Japan ERATO Higashiyama Live-holonics Project, Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya,
464-8602 Japan Institute of Transformative Bio-Molecules, Nagoya University,
Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya, 464-8602 Japan. (3)Graduate School of Science,
Nagoya University, Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya, 464-8602 Japan ERATO Higashiyama
Live-holonics Project, Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya, 464-8602 Japan Present
address: College of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Matsumoto-cho, Kasugai,
478-8501 Japan.

Phloem is a conductive tissue that allocates nutrients from mature source leaves 
to sinks such as young developing tissues. Phloem also delivers proteins and RNA 
species, such as small RNAs and mRNAs. Intensive studies on plant systemic
signaling revealed the essential roles of proteins and RNA species. However, many
of their functions are still largely unknown, with the roles of transported mRNAs
being particularly poorly understood. A major difficulty is the absence of an
accurate and comprehensive list of mobile transcripts. In this study, we used a
hetero-graft system with Nicotiana benthamiana as the recipient scion and
Arabidopsis as the donor stock, to identify transcripts that moved long distances
across the graft union. We identified 138 Arabidopsis transcripts as mobile
mRNAs, which we collectively termed the mRNA mobilome. Reverse transcription-PCR,
quantitative real-time PCR and droplet digital PCR analyses confirmed the
mobility. The transcripts included potential signaling factors and, unexpectedly,
more general factors. In our investigations, we found no preferred transcript
length, no previously known sequence motifs in promoter or transcript sequences
and no similarities between the level of the transcripts and that in the source
leaves. Grafting experiments regarding the function of ERECTA, an identified
transcript, showed that no function of the transcript mobilized. To our
knowledge, this is the first report identifying transcripts that move over long
distances using a hetero-graft system between different plant taxa.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Japanese
Society of Plant Physiologists. All rights reserved. For permissions, please
email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/pcp/pcu210 
PMID: 25527829  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Clin Biochem. 2015 Oct;48(15):999-1002. doi: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2014.12.007.
Epub 2014 Dec 16.

Detection of BRAF-V600E and V600K in melanoma circulating tumour cells by droplet
digital PCR.

Reid AL(1), Freeman JB(2), Millward M(3), Ziman M(4), Gray ES(5).

Author information: 
(1)School of Medical Sciences, Edith Cowan University, Perth, WA, Australia.
Electronic address: a.reid@ecu.edu.au. (2)School of Medical Sciences, Edith Cowan
University, Perth, WA, Australia. Electronic address: james.freeman@ecu.edu.au.
(3)School of Medicine and Pharmacology, University of Western Australia, Crawley,
WA, Australia. Electronic address: michael.millward@uwa.edu.au. (4)School of
Medical Sciences, Edith Cowan University, Perth, WA, Australia; School of
Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Western Australia, Crawley, WA, 
Australia. Electronic address: m.ziman@ecu.edu.au. (5)School of Medical Sciences,
Edith Cowan University, Perth, WA, Australia. Electronic address:
e.gray@ecu.edu.au.

OBJECTIVES: Defining the BRAF mutation status in metastatic melanoma patients is 
critical to selecting patients for therapeutic treatment with targeted therapies.
Circulating tumour cells (CTCs) can provide an alternative source of
contemporaneous tumour genetic material. However methodologies to analyse the
presence of rare mutations in a background of wild-type DNA requires a detailed
assessment. Here we evaluate the sensitivity of two technologies for cancer
mutation detection and the suitability of whole genome amplified DNA as a
template for the detection of BRAF-V600 mutations.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Serial dilutions of mutant BRAF-V600E DNA in wild-type DNA
were tested using both competitive allele-specific PCR (castPCR) and droplet
digital PCR (ddPCR), with and without previous whole genome amplification (WGA). 
Using immunomagnetic beads, we partially enriched CTCs from blood obtained from
metastatic melanoma patients with confirmed BRAF mutation positive tumours and
extracted RNA and DNA from the CTCs. We used RT-PCR of RNA to confirm the
presence of melanoma cells in the CTC fraction then the DNAs of CTC positive
fractions were WGA and tested for BRAF V600E or V600K mutations by ddPCRs.
RESULTS: WGA DNA produced lower than expected fractional abundances by castPCR
analysis but not by ddPCR. Moreover, ddPCR was found to be 200 times more
sensitive than castPCR and in combination with WGA produced the most concordant
results, with a limit of detection of 0.0005%. BRAF-V600E or V600K mutated DNA
was detected in 77% and 44%, respectively, of enriched CTC fractions from
metastatic melanoma patients carrying the corresponding mutations.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that using ddPCR in combination with WGA DNA
allows the detection with high sensitivity of cancer mutations in partially
enriched CTC fractions.

Copyright © 2014 The Canadian Society of Clinical Chemists. Published by Elsevier
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2014.12.007 
PMID: 25523300  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. BMC Cancer. 2014 Dec 18;14:982. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-14-982.

Intratumoral heterogeneity in a minority of ovarian low-grade serous carcinomas.

Tone AA, McConechy MK, Yang W, Ding J, Yip S, Kong E, Wong KK, Gershenson DM,
Mackay H, Shah S, Gilks B, Tinker AV, Clarke B, McAlpine JN, Huntsman D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of British
Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada. dhuntsma@bccancer.bc.ca.

BACKGROUND: Ovarian low-grade serous carcinoma (LGSC) has fewer mutations than
ovarian high-grade serous carcinoma (HGSC) and a less aggressive clinical course.
However, an overwhelming majority of LGSC patients do not respond to conventional
chemotherapy resulting in a poor long-term prognosis comparable to women
diagnosed with HGSC. KRAS and BRAF mutations are common in LGSC, leading to
clinical trials targeting the MAPK pathway. We assessed the stability of
targetable somatic mutations over space and/or time in LGSC, with a view to
inform stratified treatment strategies and clinical trial design.
METHODS: Eleven LGSC cases with primary and recurrent paired samples were
identified (stage IIB-IV). Tumor DNA was isolated from 1-4 formalin-fixed
paraffin-embedded tumor blocks from both the primary and recurrence (n = 37 tumor
and n = 7 normal samples). Mutational analysis was performed using the Ion
Torrent AmpliSeqTM Cancer Panel, with targeted validation using Fluidigm-MiSeq,
Sanger sequencing and/or Raindance Raindrop digital PCR.
RESULTS: KRAS (3/11), BRAF (2/11) and/or NRAS (1/11) mutations were identified in
five unique cases. A novel, non-synonymous mutation in SMAD4 was observed in one 
case. No somatic mutations were detected in the remaining six cases. In two cases
with a single matched primary and recurrent sample, two KRAS hotspot mutations
(G12V, G12R) were both stable over time. In three cases with multiple samplings
from both the primary and recurrent surgery some mutations (NRAS Q61R, BRAF
V600E, SMAD4 R361G) were stable across all samples, while others (KRAS G12V, BRAF
G469V) were unstable.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the majority of cases with detectable somatic mutations
showed mutational stability over space and time while one of five cases showed
both temporal and spatial mutational instability in presumed drivers of disease. 
Investigation of additional cases is required to confirm whether mutational
heterogeneity in a minority of LGSC is a general phenomenon that should be
factored into the design of clinical trials and stratified treatment for this
patient population.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-14-982 
PMCID: PMC4320586
PMID: 25523272  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Lab Chip. 2015 Mar 7;15(5):1276-83. doi: 10.1039/c4lc01038h.

Real-time tracking, retrieval and gene expression analysis of migrating human T
cells.

Mehling M(1), Frank T, Albayrak C, Tay S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biosystems Science and Engineering, ETH Zürich, Mattenstrasse
26, 4058 Basel, Switzerland. savas.tay@bsse.ethz.ch.

Dynamical analysis of single-cells allows assessment of the extent and role of
cell-to-cell variability, however traditional dish-and-pipette techniques have
hindered single-cell analysis in quantitative biology. We developed an automated 
microfluidic cell culture system that generates stable diffusion-based chemokine 
gradients, where cells can be placed in predetermined positions, monitored via
single-cell time-lapse microscopy, and subsequently be retrieved based on their
migration speed and directionality for further off-chip gene expression analysis,
constituting a powerful platform for multiparameter quantitative studies of
single-cell chemotaxis. Using this system we studied CXCL12-directed migration of
individual human primary T cells. Spatiotemporally deterministic retrieval of T
cell subsets in relation to their migration speed, and subsequent analysis with
microfluidic droplet digital-PCR showed that the expression level of CXCR4 – the 
receptor of CXCL12 – underlies enhanced human T cell chemotaxis.

DOI: 10.1039/c4lc01038h 
PMID: 25512266  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. BMC Genomics. 2014 Dec 15;15:1108. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-15-1108.

RNA-Seq gene expression profiling of HepG2 cells: the influence of experimental
factors and comparison with liver tissue.

Tyakht AV(1), Ilina EN, Alexeev DG, Ischenko DS, Gorbachev AY, Semashko TA, Larin
AK, Selezneva OV, Kostryukova ES, Karalkin PA, Vakhrushev IV, Kurbatov LK,
Archakov AI, Govorun VM.

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute of Physico-Chemical Medicine, Malaya Pirogovskaya 1a,
Moscow 119435, Russia. at@niifhm.ru.

BACKGROUND: Human hepatoma HepG2 cells are used as an in vitro model of the human
liver. High-throughput transcriptomic sequencing is an advanced approach for
assessing the functional state of a tissue or cell type. However, the influence
of experimental factors, such as the sample preparation method and
inter-laboratory variation, on the transcriptomic profile has not been evaluated.
RESULTS: The whole-transcriptome sequencing of HepG2 cells was performed using
the SOLiD platform and validated using droplet digital PCR. The gene expression
profile was compared to the results obtained with the same sequencing method in
another laboratory and using another sample preparation method. We also compared 
the transcriptomic profile HepG2 cells with that of liver tissue. Comparison of
the gene expression profiles between the HepG2 cell line and liver tissue
revealed the highest variation, followed by HepG2 cells submitted to two
different sample preparation protocols. The lowest variation was observed between
HepG2 cells prepared by two different laboratories using the same protocol. The
enrichment analysis of the genes that were differentially expressed between HepG2
cells and liver tissue mainly revealed the cancer-associated gene signature of
HepG2 cells and the activation of the response to chemical stimuli in the liver
tissue. The HepG2 transcriptome obtained with the SOLiD platform was highly
correlated with the published transcriptome obtained with the Illumina and
Helicos platforms, with moderate correspondence to microarrays.
CONCLUSIONS: In the present study, we assessed the influence of experimental
factors on the HepG2 transcriptome and identified differences in gene expression 
between the HepG2 cell line and liver cells. These findings will facilitate
robust experimental design in the fields of pharmacology and toxicology. Our
results were supported by a comparative analysis with previous HepG2 gene
expression studies.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-15-1108 
PMCID: PMC4378340
PMID: 25511409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. J Clin Microbiol. 2015 Feb;53(2):587-96. doi: 10.1128/JCM.02254-14. Epub 2014 Dec
10.

Identification of TL-Om1, an adult T-cell leukemia (ATL) cell line, as reference 
material for quantitative PCR for human T-lymphotropic virus 1.

Kuramitsu M(1), Okuma K(1), Yamagishi M(2), Yamochi T(2), Firouzi S(2), Momose
H(1), Mizukami T(1), Takizawa K(1), Araki K(1), Sugamura K(3), Yamaguchi K(1),
Watanabe T(2), Hamaguchi I(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Safety Research on Blood and Biological Products, National
Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo, Japan. (2)Department of Medical Genome
Sciences, Laboratory of Tumor Cell Biology, Graduate School of Frontier Sciences,
The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan. (3)Division of Molecular and Cellular
Oncology, Miyagi Cancer Center Research Institute, Natori, Japan. (4)Department
of Safety Research on Blood and Biological Products, National Institute of
Infectious Diseases, Tokyo, Japan 130hama@niid.go.jp.

Quantitative PCR (qPCR) for human T-lymphotropic virus 1 (HTLV-1) is useful for
measuring the amount of integrated HTLV-1 proviral DNA in peripheral blood
mononuclear cells. Many laboratories in Japan have developed different HTLV-1
qPCR methods. However, when six independent laboratories analyzed the proviral
load of the same samples, there was a 5-fold difference in their results. To
standardize HTLV-1 qPCR, preparation of a well-defined reference material is
needed. We analyzed the integrated HTLV-1 genome and the internal control (IC)
genes of TL-Om1, a cell line derived from adult T-cell leukemia, to confirm its
suitability as a reference material for HTLV-1 qPCR. Fluorescent in situ
hybridization (FISH) showed that HTLV-1 provirus was monoclonally integrated in
chromosome 1 at the site of 1p13 in the TL-Om1 genome. HTLV-1 proviral genome was
not transferred from TL-Om1 to an uninfected T-cell line, suggesting that the
HTLV-1 proviral copy number in TL-Om1 cells is stable. To determine the copy
number of HTLV-1 provirus and IC genes in TL-Om1 cells, we used FISH, digital
PCR, and qPCR. HTLV-1 copy numbers obtained by these three methods were similar, 
suggesting that their results were accurate. Also, the ratio of the copy number
of HTLV-1 provirus to one of the IC genes, RNase P, was consistent for all three 
methods. These findings indicate that TL-Om1 cells are an appropriate reference
material for HTLV-1 qPCR.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.02254-14 
PMCID: PMC4298509
PMID: 25502533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. J Clin Microbiol. 2015 Feb;53(2):699-701. doi: 10.1128/JCM.03087-14. Epub 2014
Dec 10.

Accurate quantification of episomal HIV-1 two-long terminal repeat circles by use
of optimized DNA isolation and droplet digital PCR.

Malatinkova E(1), Kiselinova M(1), Bonczkowski P(1), Trypsteen W(1), Messiaen
P(1), Vermeire J(2), Verhasselt B(2), Vervisch K(1), Vandekerckhove L(3), De
Spiegelaere W(1).

Author information: 
(1)HIV Translational Research Unit, Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of
Medicine and Health Sciences, Ghent University and Ghent University Hospital,
Ghent, Belgium. (2)Department of Clinical Chemistry, Microbiology and Immunology,
Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Ghent University and Ghent University
Hospital, Ghent, Belgium. (3)HIV Translational Research Unit, Department of
Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Ghent University and 
Ghent University Hospital, Ghent, Belgium Linos.Vandekerckhove@ugent.be.

Episomal HIV-1 two-long terminal repeat (2-LTR) circles are considered markers
for ongoing viral replication. Two sample processing procedures were compared to 
accurately quantify 2-LTR in patients by using droplet digital PCR (ddPCR). Here,
we show that plasmid isolation with a spiked non-HIV plasmid for normalization
enables more accurate 2-LTR quantification than genomic DNA isolation.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.03087-14 
PMCID: PMC4298544
PMID: 25502524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Exp Parasitol. 2015 Feb;149:24-31. doi: 10.1016/j.exppara.2014.12.003. Epub 2014 
Dec 8.

Development of droplet digital PCR for the detection of Babesia microti and
Babesia duncani.

Wilson M(1), Glaser KC(1), Adams-Fish D(1), Boley M(1), Mayda M(1), Molestina
RE(2).

Author information: 
(1)BEI Resources, American Type Culture Collection, Manassas, VA 20110, USA.
(2)BEI Resources, American Type Culture Collection, Manassas, VA 20110, USA.
Electronic address: rmolestina@atcc.org.

Babesia spp. are obligate protozoan parasites of red blood cells. Transmission to
humans occurs through bites from infected ticks or blood transfusion. Infections 
with B. microti account for the majority of the reported cases of human
babesiosis in the USA. A lower incidence is caused by the more recently described
species B. duncani. The current gold standard for detection of Babesia is
microscopic examination of blood smears. Recent PCR-based assays, including
real-time PCR, have been developed for B. microti. On the other hand, molecular
assays that detect and distinguish between B. microti and B. duncani infections
are lacking. Closely related species of Babesia can be differentiated due to
sequence variation within the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions of
nuclear ribosomal RNAs. In the present study, we targeted the ITS regions of B.
microti and B. duncani to develop sensitive and species-specific droplet digital 
PCR (ddPCR) assays. The assays were shown to discriminate B. microti from B.
duncani and resulted in limits of detection of ~10 gene copies. Moreover, ddPCR
for these species were useful in DNA extracted from blood of experimentally
infected hamsters, detecting infections of low parasitemia that were negative by 
microscopic examination. In summary, we have developed sensitive and specific
quantitative ddPCR assays for the detection of B. microti and B. duncani in
blood. Our methods could be used as sensitive approaches to monitor the
progression of parasitemia in rodent models of infection as well as serve as
suitable molecular tests in blood screening.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exppara.2014.12.003 
PMCID: PMC4314376
PMID: 25500215  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Gene. 2015 Feb 15;557(1):71-81. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2014.12.012. Epub 2014 Dec 9.

High-throughput transcriptome analysis of barley (Hordeum vulgare) exposed to
excessive boron.

Tombuloglu G(1), Tombuloglu H(2), Sakcali MS(3), Unver T(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science and Arts, Fatih University,
Istanbul, Turkey; Vocational High School of Health Services, Fatih University,
Istanbul, Turkey. (2)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science and Arts, Fatih
University, Istanbul, Turkey. (3)Department of Biology, Suleyman Demirel
University, Isparta, Turkey. (4)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science,
Cankiri Karatekin University, Cankiri, Turkey. Electronic address:
turgayunver@gmail.com.

Boron (B) is an essential micronutrient for optimum plant growth. However, above 
certain threshold B is toxic and causes yield loss in agricultural lands. While a
number of studies were conducted to understand B tolerance mechanism, a
transcriptome-wide approach for B tolerant barley is performed here for the first
time. A high-throughput RNA-Seq (cDNA) sequencing technology (Illumina) was used 
with barley (Hordeum vulgare), yielding 208 million clean reads. In total,
256,874 unigenes were generated and assigned to known peptide databases: Gene
Ontology (GO) (99,043), Swiss-Prot (38,266), Clusters of Orthologous Groups (COG)
(26,250), and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) (36,860), as
determined by BLASTx search. According to the digital gene expression (DGE)
analyses, 16% and 17% of the transcripts were found to be differentially
regulated in root and leaf tissues, respectively. Most of them were involved in
cell wall, stress response, membrane, protein kinase and transporter mechanisms. 
Some of the genes detected as highly expressed in root tissue are phospholipases,
predicted divalent heavy-metal cation transporters, formin-like proteins and
calmodulin/Ca(2+)-binding proteins. In addition, chitin-binding lectin precursor,
ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase, and serine/threonine-protein kinase AFC2
genes were indicated to be highly regulated in leaf tissue upon excess B
treatment. Some pathways, such as the Ca(2+)-calmodulin system, are activated in 
response to B toxicity. The differential regulation of 10 transcripts was
confirmed by qRT-PCR, revealing the tissue-specific responses against B toxicity 
and their putative function in B-tolerance mechanisms.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2014.12.012 
PMID: 25498907  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Genome. 2014 Sep;57(9):513-6. doi: 10.1139/gen-2014-0130. Epub 2014 Dec 11.

Authentication of Ginkgo biloba herbal dietary supplements using DNA barcoding.

Little DP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Lewis B. and Dorothy Cullman Program for Molecular Systematics, The New York
Botanical Garden, Bronx, NY 10458-5126, USA.

Ginkgo biloba L. (known as ginkgo or maidenhair tree) is a phylogenetically
isolated, charismatic, gymnosperm tree. Herbal dietary supplements, prepared from
G. biloba leaves, are consumed to boost cognitive capacity via improved blood
perfusion and mitochondrial function. A novel DNA mini-barcode assay was designed
and validated for the authentication of G. biloba in herbal dietary supplements
(n = 22; sensitivity = 1.00, 95% CI = 0.59-1.00; specificity = 1.00, 95% CI =
0.64-1.00). This assay was further used to estimate the frequency of mislabeled
ginkgo herbal dietary supplements on the market in the United States of America: 
DNA amenable to PCR could not be extracted from three (7.5%) of the 40
supplements sampled, 31 of 37 (83.8%) assayable supplements contained
identifiable G. biloba DNA, and six supplements (16.2%) contained fillers without
any detectable G. biloba DNA. It is hoped that this assay will be used by
supplement manufacturers to ensure that their supplements contain G. biloba.

DOI: 10.1139/gen-2014-0130 
PMID: 25495290  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Int J Radiat Biol. 2015 Mar;91(3):286-93. doi: 10.3109/09553002.2014.995384. Epub
2015 Jan 29.

Response of Caenorhabditis elegans to wireless devices radiation exposure.

Fasseas MK(1), Fragopoulou AF, Manta AK, Skouroliakou A, Vekrellis K, Margaritis 
LH, Syntichaki P.

Author information: 
(1)Basic Research II, Biomedical Research Foundation of the Academy of Athens ,
Athens , Greece.

PURPOSE: To examine the impact of electromagnetic radiation, produced by GSM
(Global System for Mobile communications) mobile phones, Wi-Fi
(Wireless-Fidelity) routers and wireless DECT (Digital Enhanced Cordless
Telecommunications) phones, on the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We exposed synchronized populations, of different
developmental stages, to these wireless devices at E-field levels below ICNIRP's 
(International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection) guidelines for
various lengths of time. WT (wild-type) and aging- or stress-sensitive mutant
worms were examined for changes in growth, fertility, lifespan, chemotaxis,
short-term memory, increased ROS (Reactive Oxygen Species) production and
apoptosis by using fluorescent marker genes or qRT-PCR (quantitative Reverse
Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction).
RESULTS: No statistically significant differences were found between the exposed 
and the sham/control animals in any of the experiments concerning lifespan,
fertility, growth, memory, ROS, apoptosis or gene expression.
CONCLUSIONS: The worm appears to be robust to this form of (pulsed) radiation, at
least under the exposure conditions used.

DOI: 10.3109/09553002.2014.995384 
PMID: 25488006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev. 2014 Dec;23(12):2638-42. doi:
10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-14-0503.

Quantification of circulating miRNAs by droplet digital PCR: comparison of
EvaGreen- and TaqMan-based chemistries.

Miotto E(1), Saccenti E(2), Lupini L(1), Callegari E(1), Negrini M(3), Ferracin
M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Morphology, Surgery, and Experimental Medicine, Pathology
Oncology and Experimental Biology Section, University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy.
(2)Department of Medical Sciences, Hematology Section, S. Anna University
Hospital, Ferrara, Italy. (3)Department of Morphology, Surgery, and Experimental 
Medicine, Pathology Oncology and Experimental Biology Section, University of
Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy. Laboratory for Technologies of Advanced Therapies
(LTTA), University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy. manuela.ferracin@unife.it
massimo.negrini@unife.it.

Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) has been successfully used with TaqMan assays to
assess gene expression through the quantification of mRNA and miRNA. Recently, a 
new ddPCR system that can also run DNA-binding dye-based assays has been
developed but it has not yet been tested for miRNA. We tested and compared the
feasibility of quantifying miRNA with the new QX200 Droplet Digital PCR system
when used with EvaGreen dye- and TaqMan probe-based assays. RNA from plasma and
serum of 28 patients with cancer and healthy persons was reverse-transcribed and 
quantified for two circulating miRNAs and one added exogenous miRNA, with both
EvaGreen dye-based miRCURY LNA miRNA assays and TaqMan assays. Amplification and 
detection of target miRNAs were performed on the QX200 ddPCR system. Conditions
required to run miRCURY LNA miRNA assays were optimized. The EvaGreen-based assay
was precise, reproducible over a range of concentrations of four orders of
magnitude, and sensitive, detecting a target miRNA at levels down to 1 copy/μL.
When this assay was compared with TaqMan assays, high concordance was obtained
for two endogenous miRNAs in serum and plasma (Pearson r > 0.90). EvaGreen
dye-based and TaqMan probe-based assays can be equally used with the ddPCR system
to quantify circulating miRNAs in human plasma and serum. This study establishes 
the basis for using EvaGreen dye-based assays on a ddPCR system for quantifying
circulating miRNA biomarkers and potentially other low-abundance RNA biomarkers
in human biofluids. See all the articles in this CEBP Focus section, "Biomarkers,
Biospecimens, and New Technologies in Molecular Epidemiology."

©2014 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-14-0503 
PMID: 25472671  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Food Chem. 2015 Apr 15;173:1054-8. doi: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2014.10.138. Epub 2014
Nov 1.

Species identification and quantification in meat and meat products using droplet
digital PCR (ddPCR).

Floren C(1), Wiedemann I(1), Brenig B(2), Schütz E(3), Beck J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Veterinary Medicine, University of Göttingen, Burckhardtweg 2,
37077 Göttingen, Germany. (2)Institute of Veterinary Medicine, University of
Göttingen, Burckhardtweg 2, 37077 Göttingen, Germany. Electronic address:
bbrenig@gwdg.de. (3)Institute of Veterinary Medicine, University of Göttingen,
Burckhardtweg 2, 37077 Göttingen, Germany; Chronix Biomedical GmbH, Goetheallee
8, 37073 Göttingen, Germany. (4)Chronix Biomedical GmbH, Goetheallee 8, 37073
Göttingen, Germany.

Species fraud and product mislabelling in processed food, albeit not being a
direct health issue, often results in consumer distrust. Therefore methods for
quantification of undeclared species are needed. Targeting mitochondrial DNA,
e.g. CYTB gene, for species quantification is unsuitable, due to a fivefold
inter-tissue variation in mtDNA content per cell resulting in either an under-
(-70%) or overestimation (+160%) of species DNA contents. Here, we describe a
reliable two-step droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) assay targeting the nuclear F2 gene
for precise quantification of cattle, horse, and pig in processed meat products. 
The ddPCR assay is advantageous over qPCR showing a limit of quantification (LOQ)
and detection (LOD) in different meat products of 0.01% and 0.001%, respectively.
The specificity was verified in 14 different species. Hence, determining F2 in
food by ddPCR can be recommended for quality assurance and control in production 
systems.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2014.10.138 
PMID: 25466124  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Curr Opin Virol. 2014 Dec;9:84-90. doi: 10.1016/j.coviro.2014.09.014. Epub 2014
Oct 14.

Past, present, and future perspectives on the diagnosis of Roseolovirus
infections.

Hill JA(1), Sedlak RH(2), Jerome KR(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, United States; 
Vaccine and Infectious Disease Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 
Seattle, WA, United States. (2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of
Washington, Seattle, WA, United States. (3)Vaccine and Infectious Disease
Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA, United States;
Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, United 
States. Electronic address: kjerome@u.washington.edu.

Diagnosis of Roseolovirus infections mandates careful selection of patients,
samples, and testing methods. We review advances in the field and highlight
research priorities. Quantitative (q)PCR can accurately identify and distinguish 
between human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) species A and B. Whether screening of
high-risk patients improves outcomes is unclear. Chromosomally integrated
(ci)HHV-6 confounds test interpretation but can be ruled out with digital PCR.
Reverse transcription qPCR may be a more specific and clinically applicable test 
for actively replicating Roseoloviruses, particularly among patients with
ciHHV-6. Interpretation of Roseolovirus test results faces many challenges.
However, careful application of refined and emerging diagnostic techniques will
allow for increasingly accurate diagnosis of clinically significant infections
and disease associations.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.coviro.2014.09.014 
PMCID: PMC4573551
PMID: 25462438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2015 Jan;1852(1):175-83. doi: 10.1016/j.bbadis.2014.11.014.
Epub 2014 Nov 21.

Hepatic nerve growth factor induced by iron overload triggers defenestration in
liver sinusoidal endothelial cells.

Addo L(1), Tanaka H(2), Yamamoto M(1), Toki Y(1), Ito S(1), Ikuta K(1), Sasaki
K(3), Ohtake T(1), Torimoto Y(4), Fujiya M(3), Kohgo Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hematology/Oncology, Asahikawa Medical
University, Asahikawa, Hokkaido, Japan. (2)Department of Gastrointestinal
Immunology and Regenerative Medicine, Asahikawa Medical University, Asahikawa,
Hokkaido, Japan. Electronic address: hiroki-t@asahikawa-med.ac.jp. (3)Department 
of Gastrointestinal Immunology and Regenerative Medicine, Asahikawa Medical
University, Asahikawa, Hokkaido, Japan. (4)Oncology Center, Asahikawa Medical
University Hospital, Asahikawa, Hokkaido, Japan.

The fenestrations of liver sinusoidal endothelial cells (LSECs) play important
roles in the exchange of macromolecules, solutes, and fluid between blood and
surrounding liver tissues in response to hepatotoxic drugs, toxins, and oxidative
stress. As excess iron is a hepatotoxin, LSECs may be affected by excess iron. In
this study, we found a novel link between LSEC defenestration and hepatic nerve
growth factor (NGF) in iron-overloaded mice. By Western blotting, NGF was highly 
expressed, whereas VEGF and HGF were not, and hepatic NGF mRNA levels were
increased according to digital PCR. Immunohistochemically, NGF staining was
localized in hepatocytes, while TrkA, an NGF receptor, was localized in LSECs.
Scanning electron microscopy revealed LSEC defenestration in mice overloaded with
iron as well as mice treated with recombinant NGF. Treatment with conditioned
medium from iron-overloaded primary hepatocytes reduced primary LSEC
fenestrations, while treatment with an anti-NGF neutralizing antibody or TrkA
inhibitor, K252a, reversed this effect. However, iron-loaded medium itself did
not reduce fenestration. In conclusion, iron accumulation induces NGF expression 
in hepatocytes, which in turn leads to LSEC defenestration via TrkA. This novel
link between iron and NGF may aid our understanding of the development of chronic
liver disease.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbadis.2014.11.014 
PMID: 25460199  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Placenta. 2014 Dec;35(12):1106-9. doi: 10.1016/j.placenta.2014.10.003. Epub 2014 
Oct 16.

Stability of absolute copy number of housekeeping genes in preeclamptic and
normal placentas, as measured by digital PCR.

Kaitu'u-Lino TJ(1), Hastie R(2), Cannon P(2), Lee S(2), Stock O(2), Hannan NJ(2),
Hiscock R(3), Tong S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Obstetrics Group, The Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, 
Mercy Hospital for Women, University of Melbourne, Heidelberg, Victoria,
Australia. Electronic address: t.klino@unimelb.edu.au. (2)Translational
Obstetrics Group, The Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Mercy Hospital
for Women, University of Melbourne, Heidelberg, Victoria, Australia.
(3)Department of Anaesthesia, Mercy Hospital for Women, Heidelberg, Victoria,
Australia.

Measuring mRNA expression is fundamental to placental research. Ideally, mRNA
transcript numbers are directly quantified. However, PCR analysis using the ΔΔCT 
method relies on the stability of housekeeping genes and only reports relative
expression. Digital PCR (dPCR) directly quantifies mRNA copy number and is more
accurate than quantitative PCR. We quantified absolute mRNA copy number of
housekeeping genes in normotensive pre-term (n = 20), severe preeclamptic (n =
11) and term (n = 12) placenta using dPCR. Whilst there was some variation, we
confirm absolute mRNA copy number of GAPDH, TOP1, CYC1 and YWHAZ in placenta does
not significantly alter between these cohorts, or across gestation.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.placenta.2014.10.003 
PMID: 25454476  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Forensic Sci Int Genet. 2015 Jan;14:203-9. doi: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2014.10.007.
Epub 2014 Oct 15.

Minimizing inhibition of PCR-STR typing using digital agarose droplet
microfluidics.

Geng T(1), Mathies RA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA.
Electronic address: ramathies@berkeley.edu.

The presence of PCR inhibitors in forensic and other biological samples reduces
the amplification efficiency, sometimes resulting in complete PCR failure. Here
we demonstrate a high-performance digital agarose droplet microfluidics technique
for single-cell and single-molecule forensic short tandem repeat (STR) typing of 
samples contaminated with high concentrations of PCR inhibitors. In our
multifaceted strategy, the mitigation of inhibitory effects is achieved by the
efficient removal of inhibitors from the porous agarose microgel droplets
carrying the DNA template through washing and by the significant dilution of
targets and remaining inhibitors to the stochastic limit within the ultralow nL
volume droplet reactors. Compared to conventional tube-based bulk PCR, our
technique shows enhanced (20 ×, 10 ×, and 16 ×) tolerance of urea, tannic acid,
and humic acid, respectively, in STR typing of GM09948 human lymphoid cells. STR 
profiling of single cells is not affected by small soluble molecules like urea
and tannic acid because of their effective elimination from the agarose droplets;
however, higher molecular weight humic acid still partially inhibits single-cell 
PCR when the concentration is higher than 200 ng/μL. Nevertheless, the full STR
profile of 9948 male genomic DNA contaminated with 500 ng/μL humic acid was
generated by pooling and amplifying beads carrying single-molecule 9948 DNA PCR
products in a single secondary reaction. This superior performance suggests that 
our digital agarose droplet microfluidics technology is a promising approach for 
analyzing low-abundance DNA targets in the presence of inhibitors.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2014.10.007 
PMID: 25450795  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Exp Gerontol. 2015 Jan;61:15-9. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2014.11.012. Epub 2014 Nov
20.

Skeletal muscle mitochondrial DNA deletions are not increased in CuZn-superoxide 
dismutase deficient mice.

Wanagat J(1), Ahmadieh N(2), Bielas JH(3), Ericson NG(3), Van Remmen H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Geriatrics, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA 90095,
United States. Electronic address: jwanagat@mednet.ucla.edu. (2)Department of
Medicine, Division of Geriatrics, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA 90095, United States.
(3)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA 98109, United States.
(4)Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation, Oklahoma City, OK 73012, United States.

Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) deletion mutations are proposed contributors to
aging-related muscle fiber loss and atrophy, but evidence of a causal role for
these mutations in muscle aging is lacking. Elucidating the etiology of in vivo
mtDNA deletion mutations will help to better understand and test the possible
roles of these mutations in aging. The implication of mtDNA mutations in aging is
based on the susceptibility of mtDNA to oxidative damage by reactive oxygen
species (ROS) due to residing in mitochondria, the primary source of endogenous
ROS. Cells possess many pathways for neutralizing ROSs, including a variety of
superoxide dismutases (SOD). Mice lacking CuZnSOD (Sod1(-/-) mice) have high
levels of oxidative damage in many tissues including skeletal muscle and are a
model for testing the role of oxidative damage in the formation of mtDNA deletion
mutations. The increased DNA oxidative damage in Sod1(-/-) mice is associated
with increased mtDNA deletion mutations in a variety of tissues, but skeletal
muscle mtDNA mutations have not been reported. We hypothesized that a life-long
absence of mouse muscle CuZnSOD would increase mtDNA deletion mutation frequency 
and focal accumulation of these mutations in aging mouse skeletal muscle. Focal
accumulations of mtDNA deletion mutations were detected by histochemical staining
for cytochrome c oxidase (cytOX) activity and detection of cytOX-negative fibers,
a marker of focal mtDNA mutation accumulation, within approximately 20,000 muscle
fibers through a distance of 1000μm. Total DNA was extracted from intervening
unstained sections and mtDNA deletion mutation frequency was measured by a
droplet digital PCR. Droplet digital PCR quantification of mtDNA deletion
mutations showed no difference in mtDNA deletion mutation frequency in Sod1(-/-) 
mouse muscle compared to wild-type mice and we observed no significant increase
in the number of cytOX-negative muscle fibers, in Sod1(-/-) mice compared to
wild-type mice. These data demonstrate that not all changes in cellular oxidative
stress are linked to mtDNA deletion mutations and shift the focus to other
etiologies for these mutations that need to be clarified to better test their
possible role in aging.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2014.11.012 
PMCID: PMC4289650
PMID: 25449857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Gene. 2015 Jan 25;555(2):362-76. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2014.11.032. Epub 2014 Nov
15.

RNA-Seq-based transcriptome analysis of dormant flower buds of Chinese cherry
(Prunus pseudocerasus).

Zhu Y(1), Li Y(2), Xin D(3), Chen W(4), Shao X(5), Wang Y(6), Guo W(7).

Author information: 
(1)College of Agricultural and Biological Engineering, Jinhua Polytechnic,
Jinhua, Zhejiang 321007, China; Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of
Biotechnology on Specialty Economic Plants, Zhejiang Normal University, Jinhua,
Zhejiang 321004, China. Electronic address: zhouchen@zjnu.cn. (2)Zhejiang
Provincial Key Laboratory of Biotechnology on Specialty Economic Plants, Zhejiang
Normal University, Jinhua, Zhejiang 321004, China. Electronic address:
lyq@zjnu.cn. (3)Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Biotechnology on Specialty 
Economic Plants, Zhejiang Normal University, Jinhua, Zhejiang 321004, China.
Electronic address: xindedong@zjnu.cn. (4)Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of
Biotechnology on Specialty Economic Plants, Zhejiang Normal University, Jinhua,
Zhejiang 321004, China. Electronic address: cwr@zjnu.cn. (5)Zhejiang Provincial
Key Laboratory of Biotechnology on Specialty Economic Plants, Zhejiang Normal
University, Jinhua, Zhejiang 321004, China. Electronic address:
shaoxu0511@126.com. (6)Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Biotechnology on
Specialty Economic Plants, Zhejiang Normal University, Jinhua, Zhejiang 321004,
China. Electronic address: yueshizi@163.com. (7)Zhejiang Provincial Key
Laboratory of Biotechnology on Specialty Economic Plants, Zhejiang Normal
University, Jinhua, Zhejiang 321004, China. Electronic address: gwd@zjnu.cn.

Bud dormancy is a critical biological process allowing Chinese cherry (Prunus
pseudocerasus) to survive in winter. Due to the lake of genomic information,
molecular mechanisms triggering endodormancy release in flower buds have remained
unclear. Hence, we used Illumina RNA-Seq technology to carry out de novo
transcriptome assembly and digital gene expression profiling of flower buds.
Approximately 47million clean reads were assembled into 50,604 sequences with an 
average length of 837bp. A total of 37,650 unigene sequences were successfully
annotated. 128 pathways were annotated by Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes
(KEGG) pathway analysis, and metabolic, biosynthesis of second metabolite and
plant hormone signal transduction accounted for higher percentage in flower bud. 
In critical period of endodormancy release, 1644, significantly differentially
expressed genes (DEGs) were identified from expression profile. DEGs related to
oxidoreductase activity were especially abundant in Gene Ontology (GO) molecular 
function category. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway
analysis demonstrated that DEGs were involved in various metabolic processes,
including phytohormone metabolism. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis 
indicated that levels of DEGs for abscisic acid and gibberellin biosynthesis
decreased while the abundance of DEGs encoding their degradation enzymes
increased and GID1 was down-regulated. Concomitant with endodormancy release,
MADS-box transcription factors including P. pseudocerasus dormancy-associated
MADS-box (PpcDAM), Agamous-like2, and APETALA3-like genes, shown remarkably
epigenetic roles. The newly generated transcriptome and gene expression profiling
data provide valuable genetic information for revealing transcriptomic variation 
during bud dormancy in Chinese cherry. The uncovered data should be useful for
future studies of bud dormancy in Prunus fruit trees lacking genomic information.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2014.11.032 
PMID: 25447903  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Int J Infect Dis. 2014 Dec;29:211-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ijid.2014.10.004. Epub 2014
Oct 30.

IS6110-5'3'FP: an automated typing approach for Mycobacterium tuberculosis
complex strains simultaneously targeting and resolving IS6110 5' and 3'
polymorphisms.

Thabet S(1), Karboul A(1), Dekhil N(1), Mardassi H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Typing and Genetics of Mycobacteria, LR11IPT01 Laboratory of Molecular
Microbiology, Vaccinology, and Biotechnology Development, Institut Pasteur de
Tunis, Université de Tunis El Manar, 13 Place Pasteur, BP 74, 1002,
Tunis-Belvédère, Tunis, Tunisia. (2)Unit of Typing and Genetics of Mycobacteria, 
LR11IPT01 Laboratory of Molecular Microbiology, Vaccinology, and Biotechnology
Development, Institut Pasteur de Tunis, Université de Tunis El Manar, 13 Place
Pasteur, BP 74, 1002, Tunis-Belvédère, Tunis, Tunisia. Electronic address:
helmi.merdassi@pasteur.rns.tn.

OBJECTIVES: Fingerprinting of Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex strains based on
the IS6110 insertion sequence would considerably gain in terms of discriminatory 
power and versatility if both 5' and 3' polymorphisms were simultaneously
targeted, and if it benefited from automated capillary electrophoresis. In
response to these requirements, we developed IS6110-5'3'FP (IS6110 5' and 3'
fluorescent polymorphisms).
METHODS: IS6110-5'3'FP involves the construction of an M. tuberculosis genomic
library in a plasmid vector using HincII endonuclease, which cuts within the
IS6110 sequence. After amplification in Escherichia coli, the library is
subjected to selective and simultaneous PCR amplification of IS6110 5' and 3'
polymorphic fragments, using differentially labeled fluorescent primers. The
resulting amplicons are then fractionated on a capillary sequencer and the signal
peaks analyzed as digital data.
RESULTS: IS6110-5'3'FP consistently detected and resolved both 5' and 3' IS6110
polymorphic fragments (35% and 65%, respectively) with a high level of
reproducibility. The method differentiated all M. tuberculosis strains, as did
IS6110 restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP), the gold standard of
IS6110-based typing. Strikingly, the potential of IS6110-5'3'FP to resolve more
polymorphic fragments than IS6110 RFLP was demonstrated.
CONCLUSIONS: IS6110-5'3'FP demonstrated sufficient potential to be a promising
automated alternative to IS6110 RFLP, amenable to high throughput analysis and
inter-laboratory comparison.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijid.2014.10.004 
PMID: 25447727  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


841. Curr Microbiol. 2015 Mar;70(3):436-40. doi: 10.1007/s00284-014-0728-z. Epub 2014 
Dec 2.

Clustering of clinical and environmental Escherichia coli O104 isolates using the
DiversiLab™ repetitive sequence-based PCR system.

Herbold NM(1), Clotilde LM, Anderson KM, Kase J, Hartman GL, Himathongkham S, Lin
A, Lauzon CR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, California State University, East Bay,
25800 Carlos Bee Blvd., Hayward, CA, 94542, USA.

The DiversiLab™ rep-PCR system was used to amplify DNA regions of 28
well-characterized Escherichia coli O104 strains to generate a digital DNA
fingerprint profile for strain differentiation. E. coli O104 strains from human
stools and other sources were examined. The results indicate that this system can
cluster similar O104 strains rapidly.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-014-0728-z 
PMID: 25447271  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Haemophilia. 2015 Jan;21(1):140-7. doi: 10.1111/hae.12536. Epub 2014 Nov 30.

Identification of a novel large deletion in a patient with severe factor V
deficiency using an in-house F5 MLPA assay.

Nuzzo F(1), Paraboschi EM, Straniero L, Pavlova A, Duga S, Castoldi E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Cardiovascular Research Institute Maastricht
(CARIM), Maastricht University, Maastricht, the Netherlands.

Factor V (FV) deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive bleeding disorder caused
by mutations in the F5 gene. FV-deficient patients in whom no mutation or only
one mutation is found may harbour large gene rearrangements, which are not
detected by conventional mutation screening strategies. The aim of this study was
to develop and validate a multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA)
assay for the detection of large deletions and duplications in the F5 gene.
Twenty-two MLPA probes targeting 19 of the 25 exons and the upstream and
downstream regions of the F5 gene were designed and tested in 10 normal controls,
a patient with a known heterozygous deletion of F5 exons 1-7 (positive control)
and 14 genetically unexplained FV-deficient patients. MLPA results were confirmed
by digital PCR on a QuantStudio(™) 3D Digital PCR System. The F5-specific probes 
yielded a reproducible peak profile in normal controls, correctly detected the
known deletion in the positive control and suggested the presence of a novel
deletion of exons 9-10 in a patient with undetectable FV levels and only one
identified mutation. Follow-up by chip-based digital PCR, long-range PCR and
direct sequencing confirmed that this patient carried a heterozygous F5 deletion 
of 1823 bp extending from intron 8 to intron 10. Bioinformatics sequence analysis
pinpointed repetitive elements that might have originated the deletion. In
conclusion, we have developed and validated an MLPA assay for the detection of
gross F5 gene rearrangements. This assay may represent a valuable tool for the
molecular diagnosis of FV deficiency.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hae.12536 
PMID: 25438872  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Epigenetics. 2014 Oct;9(10):1360-5. doi: 10.4161/15592294.2014.967589.

A comparison of DNA methylation specific droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) and real
time qPCR with flow cytometry in characterizing human T cells in peripheral
blood.

Wiencke JK(1), Bracci PM, Hsuang G, Zheng S, Hansen H, Wrensch MR, Rice T, Eliot 
M, Kelsey KT.

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Neurological Surgery ; University of California, San Francisco
; San Francisco , CA USA.

Quantitating the copy number of demethylated CpG promoter sites of the CD3Z gene 
can be used to estimate the numbers and proportions of T cells in human blood and
tissue. Quantitative methylation specific PCR (qPCR) is useful for studying T
cells but requires extensive calibration and is imprecise at low copy numbers.
Here we compared the performance of a new digital PCR platform (droplet digital
PCR or ddPCR) to qPCR using bisulfite converted DNA from 157 blood specimens
obtained from ambulatory care controls and patients with primary glioma. We
compared both ddPCR and qPCR with conventional flow cytometry (FACS) evaluation
of CD3 positive T cells. Repeated measures on the same blood sample revealed
ddPCR to be less variable than qPCR. Both qPCR and ddPCR correlated significantly
with FACS evaluation of peripheral blood CD3 counts and CD3/total leukocyte
values. However, statistical measures of agreement showed that linear concordance
was stronger for ddPCR than for qPCR and the absolute values were closer to FACS 
for ddPCR. Both qPCR and ddPCR could distinguish clinically significant
differences in T cell proportions and performed similarly to FACS. Given the
higher precision, greater accuracy, and technical simplicity of ddPCR, this
approach appears to be a superior DNA methylation based method than conventional 
qPCR for the assessment of T cells.

DOI: 10.4161/15592294.2014.967589 
PMCID: PMC4622657
PMID: 25437051  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Lab Chip. 2015 Feb 7;15(3):776-82. doi: 10.1039/c4lc01158a.

Microfluidic continuous flow digital loop-mediated isothermal amplification
(LAMP).

Rane TD(1), Chen L, Zec HC, Wang TH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 
21218, USA. thwang@jhu.edu.

Digital nucleic acid detection is rapidly becoming a popular technique for
ultra-sensitive and quantitative detection of nucleic acid molecules in a wide
range of biomedical studies. Digital polymerase chain reaction (PCR) remains the 
most popular way of conducting digital nucleic acid detection. However, due to
the need for thermocycling, digital PCR is difficult to implement in a
streamlined manner on a single microfluidic device, leading to complex fragmented
workflows and multiple separate devices and instruments. Loop-mediated isothermal
amplification (LAMP) is an excellent isothermal alternative to PCR with
potentially better specificity than PCR because of the use of multiple primer
sets for a nucleic acid target. Here we report a microfluidic droplet device
implementing all the steps required for digital nucleic acid detection including 
droplet generation, incubation and in-line detection for digital LAMP. As
compared to microchamber or droplet array-based digital assays, the continuous
flow operation of this device eliminates the constraints on the number of total
reactions imposed by the footprint of the device and the analysis throughput
caused by the time for lengthy incubation and transfer of materials between
instruments.

DOI: 10.1039/c4lc01158a 
PMCID: PMC4626017
PMID: 25431886  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. IET Nanobiotechnol. 2014 Dec;8(4):238-46. doi: 10.1049/iet-nbt.2013.0055.

Computational intelligence-based polymerase chain reaction primer selection based
on a novel teaching-learning-based optimisation.

Cheng YH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Digital Content Design and Management, Toko University, Chiayi, 
Taiwan. yuhuei.cheng@gmail.com.

Specific primers play an important role in polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
experiments, and therefore it is essential to find specific primers of
outstanding quality. Unfortunately, many PCR constraints must be simultaneously
inspected which makes specific primer selection difficult and time-consuming.
This paper introduces a novel computational intelligence-based method,
Teaching-Learning-Based Optimisation, to select the specific and feasible
primers. The specified PCR product lengths of 150-300 bp and 500-800 bp with
three melting temperature formulae of Wallace's formula, Bolton and McCarthy's
formula and SantaLucia's formula were performed. The authors calculate optimal
frequency to estimate the quality of primer selection based on a total of 500
runs for 50 random nucleotide sequences of 'Homo species' retrieved from the
National Center for Biotechnology Information. The method was then fairly
compared with the genetic algorithm (GA) and memetic algorithm (MA) for primer
selection in the literature. The results show that the method easily found
suitable primers corresponding with the setting primer constraints and had
preferable performance than the GA and the MA. Furthermore, the method was also
compared with the common method Primer3 according to their method type, primers
presentation, parameters setting, speed and memory usage. In conclusion, it is an
interesting primer selection method and a valuable tool for automatic
high-throughput analysis. In the future, the usage of the primers in the wet lab 
needs to be validated carefully to increase the reliability of the method.

DOI: 10.1049/iet-nbt.2013.0055 
PMID: 25429503  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Vet Rec. 2015 Mar 14;176(11):283. doi: 10.1136/vr.102858. Epub 2014 Nov 26.

Digital dermatitis treponemes associated with a severe foot disease in dairy
goats.

Sullivan LE(1), Evans NJ(1), Clegg SR(1), Carter SD(1), Horsfield JE(2),
Grove-White D(3), Duncan JS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infection Biology, Institute of Infection and Global Health,
School of Veterinary Science, University of Liverpool, Science Park ic2, 146
Brownlow Hill, Liverpool, Merseyside L3 5RF, UK. (2)Lanes Veterinary Group, Green
Lane Veterinary Centre, Leachfield Industrial Estate, Green Lane West, Cabus,
Garstang PR3 1PR, UK. (3)Department of Epidemiology and Population Health,
Institute of Infection and Global Health, University of Liverpool, Leahurst
Campus, Neston, Wirral CH64 7TE, UK.

A UK dairy goat herd was assessed after reports of a severe lameness problem of
unknown aetiology. A lameness prevalence estimate was produced and individual
clinical examination of 15 randomly selected lame goats was performed. Fifteen
animals had foot lesions closely resembling contagious ovine digital dermatitis
(CODD) in sheep. Eight of the goats examined presented with typical CODD lesions 
and seven showed what appeared to be a more severe CODD with under-running of the
sole. Ten biopsy samples were obtained from the foot lesions and tested by PCR
for the three previously isolated digital dermatitis (DD) Treponema phylogroups
and culture of treponemes was attempted. Ninety per cent of the biopsy samples
were positive for Treponema medium/Treponema vincentii-like spirochaetes and
Treponema phagedenis-like DD spirochaetes and 80per cent were positive for
Treponema pedis. Spirochaetes were successfully isolated from 50 per cent of
lesion samples. Three isolates were identified as belonging to the T.
phagedenis-like spirochaetes and two were identified as T. pedis. The frequent
isolation of similar treponemes to those isolated from bovine digital dermatitis 
and CODD lesions and the identification of these DD-associated phylotypes in the 
vast majority of lesions support the hypothesis that this novel foot condition is
associated with infection by DD treponemes, and given the similarities to CODD,
it suggests a causal role.

British Veterinary Association.

DOI: 10.1136/vr.102858 
PMID: 25428906  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Mol Hum Reprod. 2015 Mar;21(3):281-95. doi: 10.1093/molehr/gau108. Epub 2014 Nov 
25.

Allelic imbalance modulates surface expression of the tolerance-inducing HLA-G
molecule on primary trophoblast cells.

Djurisic S(1), Teiblum S(2), Tolstrup CK(3), Christiansen OB(4), Hviid TV(5).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Immune Regulation and Reproductive Immunology (CIRRI), Department
of Clinical Biochemistry, Copenhagen University Hospital (Roskilde) and
University of Copenhagen, Denmark. (2)Depatment of Obstetrics and Gynaecology,
Copenhagen University Hospital (Roskilde) and University of Copenhagen, Denmark. 
(3)Depatment of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Herlev University Hospital, Denmark. 
(4)Fertility Clinic 4071, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen University Hospital,
Blegdamsvej 9, DK-2100 Copenhagen, Denmark. (5)Centre for Immune Regulation and
Reproductive Immunology (CIRRI), Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Copenhagen 
University Hospital (Roskilde) and University of Copenhagen, Denmark
tvh@regionsjaelland.dk.

The HLA-G molecule is expressed on trophoblast cells at the feto-maternal
interface, where it interacts with local immune cells, and upholds tolerance
against the semi-allogeneic fetus. Aberrant HLA-G expression in the placenta and 
reduced soluble HLA-G levels are observed in pregnancy complications, partly
explained by HLA-G polymorphisms which are associated with differences in the
alternative splicing pattern and of the stability of HLA-G mRNA. Of special
importance is a 14 bp insertion/deletion polymorphism located in the
3'-untranslated region of the HLA-G gene. In the current study, we present novel 
evidence for allelic imbalance of the 14 bp insertion/deletion polymorphism,
using a very accurate and sensitive Digital droplet PCR technique. Allelic
imbalance in heterozygous samples was observed as differential expression levels 
of 14 bp insertion/deletion allele-specific mRNA transcripts, which was further
associated with low levels of HLA-G surface expression on primary trophoblast
cells. Full gene sequencing of HLA-G allowed us to study correlations between
HLA-G extended haplotypes and single-nucleotide polymorphisms and HLA-G surface
expression. We found that a 1:1 expression (allelic balance) of the 14 bp
insertion/deletion mRNA alleles was associated with high surface expression of
HLA-G and with a specific HLA-G extended haplotype. The 14 bp del/del genotype
was associated with a significantly lower abundance of the G1 mRNA isoform, and a
higher abundance of the G3 mRNA isoform. Overall, the present study provides
original evidence for allelic imbalance of the 14 bp insertion/deletion
polymorphism, which influences HLA-G surface expression on primary trophoblast
cells, considered to be important in the pathogenesis of pre-eclampsia and other 
pregnancy complications.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European
Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/gau108 
PMID: 25425608  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Int J Mol Sci. 2014 Nov 21;15(11):21476-91. doi: 10.3390/ijms151121476.

Assessing the accuracy of quantitative molecular microbial profiling.

O'Sullivan DM(1), Laver T(2), Temisak S(3), Redshaw N(4), Harris KA(5), Foy
CA(6), Studholme DJ(7), Huggett JF(8).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Biology, LGC Ltd., Queens Road, Teddington TW11 0LY, UK.
denise.osullivan@lgcgroup.com. (2)Biosciences, University of Exeter, Geoffrey
Pope Building, Stocker Road, Exeter EX4 4QD, UK. twl207@exeter.ac.uk.
(3)Molecular Biology, LGC Ltd., Queens Road, Teddington TW11 0LY, UK.
sasithon.temisak@lgcgroup.com. (4)Molecular Biology, LGC Ltd., Queens Road,
Teddington TW11 0LY, UK. nicholas.redshaw@lgcgroup.com. (5)Department of
Microbiology, Virology and Infection Control, Great Ormond Street Hospital for
Children NHS Trust, Great Ormond Street, London WC1N 3JH, UK.
Kathryn.harris@gosh.nhs.uk. (6)Molecular Biology, LGC Ltd., Queens Road,
Teddington TW11 0LY, UK. carole.foy@lgcgroup.com. (7)Biosciences, University of
Exeter, Geoffrey Pope Building, Stocker Road, Exeter EX4 4QD, UK.
d.j.studholme@exeter.ac.uk. (8)Molecular Biology, LGC Ltd., Queens Road,
Teddington TW11 0LY, UK. jim.huggett@lgcgroup.com.

The application of high-throughput sequencing in profiling microbial communities 
is providing an unprecedented ability to investigate microbiomes. Such studies
typically apply one of two methods: amplicon sequencing using PCR to target a
conserved orthologous sequence (typically the 16S ribosomal RNA gene) or whole
(meta)genome sequencing (WGS). Both methods have been used to catalog the
microbial taxa present in a sample and quantify their respective abundances.
However, a comparison of the inherent precision or bias of the different
sequencing approaches has not been performed. We previously developed a
metagenomic control material (MCM) to investigate error when performing different
sequencing strategies. Amplicon sequencing using four different primer strategies
and two 16S rRNA regions was examined (Roche 454 Junior) and compared to WGS
(Illumina HiSeq). All sequencing methods generally performed comparably and in
good agreement with organism specific digital PCR (dPCR); WGS notably
demonstrated very high precision. Where discrepancies between relative abundances
occurred they tended to differ by less than twofold. Our findings suggest that
when alternative sequencing approaches are used for microbial molecular profiling
they can perform with good reproducibility, but care should be taken when
comparing small differences between distinct methods. This work provides a
foundation for future work comparing relative differences between samples and the
impact of extraction methods. We also highlight the value of control materials
when conducting microbial profiling studies to benchmark methods and set
appropriate thresholds.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms151121476 
PMCID: PMC4264237
PMID: 25421243  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. PLoS One. 2014 Nov 21;9(11):e113768. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0113768.
eCollection 2014.

Transcript profiling reveals auxin and cytokinin signaling pathways and
transcription regulation during in vitro organogenesis of Ramie (Boehmeria nivea 
L. Gaud).

Huang X(1), Chen J(1), Bao Y(1), Liu L(1), Jiang H(1), An X(1), Dai L(1), Wang
B(1), Peng D(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Plant Science and Technology, Huazhong Agricultural University, #1 
Shizishan Street, Hongshan District, Wuhan 430070, Hubei Province, China.

In vitro organogenesis, one of the most common pathways leading to in vitro plant
regeneration, is widely used in biotechnology and the fundamental study of plant 
biology. Although previous studies have constructed a complex regulatory network 
model for Arabidopsis in vitro organogenesis, no related study has been reported 
in ramie. To generate more complete observations of transcriptome content and
dynamics during ramie in vitro organogenesis, we constructed a reference
transcriptome library and ten digital gene expression (DGE) libraries for
illumina sequencing. Approximately 111.34 million clean reads were obtained for
transcriptome and the DGE libraries generated between 13.5 and 18.8 million clean
reads. De novo assembly produced 43,222 unigenes and a total of 5,760
differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were filtered. Searching against the Kyoto 
Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes Pathway database, 26 auxin related and 11
cytokinin related DEGs were selected for qRT-PCR validation of two ramie
cultivars, which had high (Huazhu No. 5) or extremely low (Dazhuhuangbaima) shoot
regeneration abilities. The results revealed differing regulation patterns of
auxin and cytokinin in different genotypes. Here we report the first genome-wide 
gene expression profiling of in vitro organogenesis in ramie and provide an
overview of transcription and phytohormone regulation during the process.
Furthermore, the auxin and cytokinin related genes have distinct expression
patterns in two ramie cultivars with high or extremely low shoot regeneration
ability, which has given us a better understanding of the in vitro organogenesis 
mechanism. This result will provide a foundation for future phytohormone research
and lead to improvements of the ramie regeneration system.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0113768 
PMCID: PMC4240604
PMID: 25415356  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. J Integr Med. 2014 Nov;12(6):476-82. doi: 10.1016/S2095-4964(14)60058-3.

Constructing protein-protein interaction network of hypertension with blood
stasis syndrome via digital gene expression sequencing and database mining.

Lian YH(1), Fang MX(1), Chen LG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine, Medical School of Ji'nan
University, Guangzhou 510632, Guangdong Province, China. (2)Institute of
Integrated Chinese and Western Medicine, Medical School of Ji'nan University,
Guangzhou 510632, Guangdong Province, China; E-mail: tchenly@jnu.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVE: To construct a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network in
hypertension patients with blood-stasis syndrome (BSS) by using digital gene
expression (DGE) sequencing and database mining techniques.
METHODS: DGE analysis based on the Solexa Genome Analyzer platform was performed 
on vascular endothelial cells incubated with serum of hypertension patients with 
BSS. The differentially expressed genes were filtered by comparing the expression
levels between the different experimental groups. Then functional categories and 
enriched pathways of the unique genes for BSS were analyzed using Database for
Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery (DAVID) to select those in the
enrichment pathways. Interologous Interaction Database (I2D) was used to
construct PPI networks with the selected genes for hypertension patients with
BSS. The potential candidate genes related to BSS were identified by comparing
the number of relationships among genes. Confirmed by quantitative reverse
transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), gene ontology (GO) analysis
was used to infer the functional annotations of the potential candidate genes for
BSS.
RESULTS: With gene enrichment analysis using DAVID, a list of 58 genes was chosen
from the unique genes. The selected 58 genes were analyzed using I2D, and a PPI
network was constructed. Based on the network analysis results, candidate genes
for BSS were identified: DDIT3, JUN, HSPA8, NFIL3, HSPA5, HIST2H2BE, H3F3B,
CEBPB, SAT1 and GADD45A. Verified through qRT-PCR and analyzed by GO, the
functional annotations of the potential candidate genes were explored.
CONCLUSION: Compared with previous methodologies reported in the literature, the 
present DGE analysis and data mining method have shown a great improvement in
analyzing BSS.

DOI: 10.1016/S2095-4964(14)60058-3 
PMID: 25412665  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Clin Chem. 2015 Jan;61(1):297-304. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2014.230235. Epub 2014
Nov 19.

Quantitative cell-free circulating BRAFV600E mutation analysis by use of droplet 
digital PCR in the follow-up of patients with melanoma being treated with BRAF
inhibitors.

Sanmamed MF(1), Fernández-Landázuri S(2), Rodríguez C(2), Zárate R(3), Lozano
MD(4), Zubiri L(1), Perez-Gracia JL(1), Martín-Algarra S(1), González A(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology. (2)Department of Biochemistry, and. (3)Centro 
de Investigación Médica Aplicada (CIMA) Lab-Diagnostic, Pamplona, Navarra, Spain.
(4)Department of Pathology, University Clinic of Navarra, Pamplona, Spain;
(5)Department of Biochemistry, and agonzaleh@unav.es.

BACKGROUND: Around 50% of cutaneous melanomas harbor the BRAF(V600E) mutation and
can be treated with BRAF inhibitors. DNA carrying this mutation can be released
into circulation as cell-free BRAF(V600E) (cfBRAF(V600E)). Droplet digital PCR
(ddPCR) is an analytically sensitive technique for quantifying small
concentrations of DNA. We studied the plasma concentrations of cfBRAF(V600E) by
ddPCR in patients with melanoma during therapy with BRAF inhibitors.
METHODS: Plasma concentrations of cfBRAF(V600E) were measured in 8 controls and
20 patients with advanced melanoma having the BRAF(V600E) mutation during
treatment with BRAF inhibitors at baseline, first month, best response, and
progression.
RESULTS: The BRAF(V600E) mutation was detected by ddPCR even at a fractional
abundance of 0.005% in the wild-type gene. Agreement between tumor tissue
BRAF(V600E) and plasma cfBRAF(V600E) was 84.3%. Baseline cfBRAF(V600E) correlated
with tumor burden (r = 0.742, P < 0.001). cfBRAF(V600E) concentrations decreased 
significantly at the first month of therapy (basal median, 216 copies/mL; Q1-Q3, 
27-647 copies/mL; first response median, 0 copies/mL; Q1-Q3, 0-49 copies/mL; P < 
0.01) and at the moment of best response (median, 0 copies/mL; Q1-Q3, 0-33
copies/mL; P < 0.01). At progression, there was a significant increase in the
concentration of cfBRAF(V600E) compared with best response (median, 115
copies/mL; Q1-Q3, 3-707 copies/mL; P = 0.013). Lower concentrations of basal
cfBRAF(V600E) were significantly associated with longer overall survival and
progression-free survival (27.7 months and 9 months, respectively) than higher
basal concentrations (8.6 months and 3 months, P < 0.001 and P = 0.024,
respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: cfBRAF(V600E) quantification in plasma by ddPCR is useful as a
follow-up to treatment response in patients with advanced melanoma.

© 2014 American Association for Clinical Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2014.230235 
PMID: 25411185  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Lab Chip. 2015 Jan 7;15(1):17-22. doi: 10.1039/c4lc90119c.

Research highlights: digital assays on chip.

Kim D(1), Wei Q, Kong JE, Ozcan A, Di Carlo D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, California NanoSystems Institute, Jonsson
Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of California Los Angeles, 420 Westwood
Plaza, 5121 Engineering V, Box 951600, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.
dicarlo@ucla.edu.

The ability to break up a volume of fluid into smaller pieces that are confined
or separated to prevent molecular communication/transport is a key capability
intrinsic to microfluidic systems. This capability has been used to develop or
implement digital versions of traditional molecular analysis assays, including
digital PCR and digital immunoassays/ELISA. In these digital versions, the
concentration of the target analyte is in a range such that, when sampled into
smaller fluid volumes, either a single molecule or no molecule may be present.
Subsequent amplification is sensitive enough to obtain a digital readout of the
presence of these target molecules. Advantages of such approaches that are
claimed include quantification without calibration and robustness to variations
in reaction conditions or times because the digital readout is less sensitive to 
absolute signal intensity levels. Weaknesses of digital approaches include a
lower dynamic range of concentrations over which the assay is sensitive, which
depends on the total volume that can be analyzed. We highlight recent efforts to 
expand the dynamic range of digital assays based on exploiting reaction/diffusion
phenomena. A side-by-side study that evaluates the strengths of digital assays
reveals that the majority of these claims are supported, with specific caveats.
Finally, we highlight approaches to apply digital assays to analyze new types of 
reactions, including the active transport of protons across membranes by ATPases 
at the single protein level - perhaps opening up new biophysical understanding
and screening opportunities, similar to widely deployed single-molecule ion
channel analysis.

DOI: 10.1039/c4lc90119c 
PMID: 25410901 


853. PLoS One. 2014 Nov 18;9(11):e110780. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0110780.
eCollection 2014.

Quantification and dynamic monitoring of EGFR T790M in plasma cell-free DNA by
digital PCR for prognosis of EGFR-TKI treatment in advanced NSCLC.

Wang Z(1), Chen R(1), Wang S(1), Zhong J(1), Wu M(1), Zhao J(1), Duan J(1), Zhuo 
M(1), An T(1), Wang Y(1), Bai H(1), Wang J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic Medical Oncology, Key Laboratory of Carcinogenesis and 
Translational Research (Ministry of Education), Beijing Cancer Hospital & Beijing
Institute for Cancer Research, Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND: Among advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients with an
acquired resistance to epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase
inhibitors (EGFR-TKI), about 50% carry the T790M mutation, but this frequency in 
EGFR-TKI-naïve patients and dynamic change during therapy remains unclear. This
study investigated the quantification and dynamic change of T790M mutation in
plasma cell-free DNA (cf-DNA) of advanced NSCLC patients to assess the clinical
outcomes of EGFR-TKI therapy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We retrospectively investigated 135 patients with advanced
NSCLC who obtained progression-free survival (PFS) after EGFR-TKI for >6 months
for their EGFR sensitive mutations and T790M mutation in matched pre- and
post-TKI plasma samples, using denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography 
(DHPLC), amplification refractory mutation system (ARMS), and digital-PCR
(D-PCR). Real-time PCR was performed to measure c-MET amplification.
RESULTS: Detection limit of D-PCR in assessing the T790M mutation was
approximately 0.03%. D-PCR identified higher frequency of T790M than ARMS in
pre-TKI (31.3% vs. 5.5%) and post-TKI (43.0% vs. 25.2%) plasma samples. Patients 
with pre-TKI T790M showed inferior PFS (8.9 vs. 12.1 months, p = 0.007) and
overall survival (OS, 19.3 vs. 31.9 months, p = 0.001) compared with those
without T790M. In patients harboring EGFR sensitive mutation, high quantities of 
pre-TKI T790M predicted poorer PFS (p = 0.001) on EGFR-TKI than low ones.
Moreover, patients who experienced increased quantity of T790M during EGFR-TKI
treatment showed superior PFS and OS compared with those with decreased changes
(p = 0.044 and p = 0.015, respectively).
CONCLUSION: Qualitative and quantitative T790M in plasma cf-DNA by D-PCR provided
a non-invasive and sensitive assay to predict EGFR-TKI prognosis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0110780 
PMCID: PMC4236040
PMID: 25405807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Clin Chem. 2015 Jan;61(1):72-8. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2014.223289. Epub 2014 Nov 
17.

Quantitative nucleic acid amplification methods for viral infections.

Gullett JC(1), Nolte FS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Medical University of South
Carolina, Charleston, SC. (2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine,
Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC. nolte@musc.edu.

BACKGROUND: Over the past 2 decades there have been substantial improvements in
the methods used to quantify viral nucleic acid in body fluids and in our
understanding of how to use viral load measurements in the diagnosis and
management of patients with a number of viral infections. These methods are now
integrated into a wide range of diagnostic and treatment guidelines and commonly 
deployed in a variety of clinical settings.
CONTENT: Quantitative nucleic acid amplification methods that are used to measure
viral load are described along with key issues and important variables that
affect their performance. Particular emphasis is placed on those methods used in 
clinical laboratories as US Food and Drug Administration-cleared or
laboratory-developed tests. We discuss the clinical applications of these methods
in patients with HIV-1, hepatitis C virus, hepatitis B virus, cytomegalovirus,
Epstein-Barr virus, and BK polyomavirus infections. Finally, the current
challenges and future directions of viral load testing are examined.
SUMMARY: Quantitative nucleic acid amplification tests provide important
information that can be used to predict disease progression, distinguish
symptomatic from asymptomatic infection, and assess the efficacy of antiviral
therapy. Despite the advances in technology, large challenges remain for viral
testing related to accuracy, precision, and standardization. Digital PCR, a
direct method of quantification of nucleic acids that does not rely on rate-based
measurements or calibration curves, may address many of the current challenges.

© 2014 American Association for Clinical Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2014.223289 
PMID: 25403817  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Mol Autism. 2014 Oct 6;5(1):49. doi: 10.1186/2040-2392-5-49. eCollection 2014.

Exon resequencing of H3K9 methyltransferase complex genes, EHMT1, EHTM2 and WIZ, 
in Japanese autism subjects.

Balan S(1), Iwayama Y(1), Maekawa M(1), Toyota T(1), Ohnishi T(1), Toyoshima
M(1), Shimamoto C(1), Esaki K(1), Yamada K(1), Iwata Y(2), Suzuki K(2), Ide M(3),
Ota M(4), Fukuchi S(5), Tsujii M(6), Mori N(7), Shinkai Y(8), Yoshikawa T(9).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Molecular Psychiatry, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 2-1
Hirosawa, Wako, Saitama, 351-0198 Japan. (2)Department of Psychiatry and
Neurology, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine, Hamamatsu, Shizuoka, Japan.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Division of Clinical Medicine, University of
Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan. (4)Graduate School of Information Science,
Nagoya University, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan. (5)Faculty of Engineering, Maebashi
Institute of Technology, Maebashi, Japan. (6)Faculty of Sociology, Chukyo
University, Chukyo, Aichi, Japan ; Research Center for Child Mental Development, 
Hamamatsu University School of Medicine, Hamamatsu, Shizuoka, Japan.
(7)Department of Psychiatry and Neurology, Hamamatsu University School of
Medicine, Hamamatsu, Shizuoka, Japan ; Research Center for Child Mental
Development, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine, Hamamatsu, Shizuoka, Japan.
(8)Cellular Memory Laboratory, RIKEN, Wako, Saitama, Japan ; CREST (Core Research
for Evolutionary Science and Technology), Japan Science and Technology Agency,
Kawaguchi, Saitama, Japan. (9)Laboratory for Molecular Psychiatry, RIKEN Brain
Science Institute, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako, Saitama, 351-0198 Japan ; CREST (Core
Research for Evolutionary Science and Technology), Japan Science and Technology
Agency, Kawaguchi, Saitama, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Histone H3 methylation at lysine 9 (H3K9) is a conserved epigenetic
signal, mediating heterochromatin formation by trimethylation, and
transcriptional silencing by dimethylation. Defective GLP (Ehmt1) and G9a (Ehmt2)
histone lysine methyltransferases, involved in mono and dimethylation of H3K9,
confer autistic phenotypes and behavioral abnormalities in animal models.
Moreover, EHMT1 loss of function results in Kleefstra syndrome, characterized by 
severe intellectual disability, developmental delays and psychiatric disorders.
We examined the possible role of histone methyltransferases in the etiology of
autism spectrum disorders (ASD) and suggest that rare functional variants in
these genes that regulate H3K9 methylation may be associated with ASD.
METHODS: Since G9a-GLP-Wiz forms a heteromeric methyltransferase complex, all the
protein-coding regions and exon/intron boundaries of EHMT1, EHMT2 and WIZ were
sequenced in Japanese ASD subjects. The detected variants were prioritized based 
on novelty and functionality. The expression levels of these genes were tested in
blood cells and postmortem brain samples from ASD and control subjects.
Expression of EHMT1 and EHMT2 isoforms were determined by digital PCR.
RESULTS: We identified six nonsynonymous variants: three in EHMT1, two in EHMT2
and one in WIZ. Two variants, the EHMT1 ankyrin repeat domain (Lys968Arg) and
EHMT2 SET domain (Thr961Ile) variants were present exclusively in cases, but
showed no statistically significant association with ASD. The EHMT2 transcript
expression was significantly elevated in the peripheral blood cells of ASD when
compared with control samples; but not for EHMT1 and WIZ. Gene expression levels 
of EHMT1, EHMT2 and WIZ in Brodmann area (BA) 9, BA21, BA40 and the dorsal raphe 
nucleus (DoRN) regions from postmortem brain samples showed no significant
changes between ASD and control subjects. Nor did expression levels of EHMT1 and 
EHMT2 isoforms in the prefrontal cortex differ significantly between ASD and
control groups.
CONCLUSIONS: We identified two novel rare missense variants in the EHMT1 and
EHMT2 genes of ASD patients. We surmise that these variants alone may not be
sufficient to exert a significant effect on ASD pathogenesis. The elevated
expression of EHMT2 in the peripheral blood cells may support the notion of a
restrictive chromatin state in ASD, similar to schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1186/2040-2392-5-49 
PMCID: PMC4233047
PMID: 25400900 


856. J Int AIDS Soc. 2014 Nov 2;17(4 Suppl 3):19823. doi: 10.7448/IAS.17.4.19823.
eCollection 2014.

The impact of nevirapine- versus protease inhibitor-based regimens on virological
markers of HIV-1 persistence during seemingly suppressive ART.

Kiselinova M(1), Anna M(2), Malatinkova E(1), Vervish K(1), Beloukas A(2),
Messiaen P(3), Bonczkowski P(1), Trypsteen W(1), Callens S(1), Verhofstede C(4), 
De Spiegelaere W(1), Vandekerckhove L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Internal Medicine and Infectious Diseases, Ghent University Hospital, Ghent,
Belgium. (2)Clinical Infection, Microbiology and Immunology, University of
Liverpool, Liverpool, UK. (3)Infectious Diseases and Immunity, Jessa Hospital,
Hasselt, Belgium. (4)AIDS Reference Laboratory, Ghent University Hospital, Ghent,
Belgium.

INTRODUCTION: The source and significance of residual plasma HIV-1 RNA detection 
during suppressive ART remain controversial. It has been proposed that nevirapine
(NVP)-based regimens achieve a greater HIV-1 RNA suppression than regimens
containing a protease inhibitor (PI). The aim of this study was to compare the
effect of receiving NVP- vs PI-based ART on the virological markers of HIV
persistence in peripheral blood.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The study population comprised 161 HIV-1 infected patients 
receiving either NVP-based (n=81) or PI-based (n=80) ART and showing a HIV-1 RNA 
load stably suppressed <40 copies/mL for median of 5.2 years (IQR 2.2-8.0).
Residual viraemia was detected by real-time PCR with 50% and 95% detection
thresholds of 1 and 3 HIV-1 RNA copies/mL, respectively. Cell-associated (CA)
unspliced HIV-1 RNA, total HIV-1 DNA and 2 LTR circles were quantified in
peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) using droplet digital PCR. Groups were
compared by standard non-parametric tests; factors associated with HIV-1
detection were analyzed by univariate regression analysis and generalized linear 
models (SPSS® V22 and Rstudio).
RESULTS: Plasma HIV-1 RNA was detected in 37/81 (45.7%) and 47/80 (58.8%)
subjects on NVP- and PI-based ART, with median (IQR) levels of 5 (3-6) and 5
(3-8) copies/mL, respectively. HIV-1 RNA detection was associated with shorter
duration of suppressive ART regardless of treatment arm (p=0.007), and lower CD4 
nadir (p=0.015). HIV-1 DNA levels were median 282 (120-484) and 213 (87-494)
copies/106 PBMCs in the two groups respectively, and were lowest (<100 copies/106
PBMCs) in subjects with lower plasma HIV-1 RNA (p=0.049), CA unspliced HIV-1 RNA 
(p=0.0001), 2 LTR circles (p=0.005) and pre-ART HIV-1 RNA load (p=0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: In this comprehensive characterization of patients on long-term
suppressive ART, we did not observe evidence for a greater suppressive activity
of NVP-based over PI-based therapy on plasma and intracellular markers of virus
persistence. Overall excellent correlation was observed between the markers,
allowing the identification of a subset of treated patients with low HIV-1
expression as an important cohort for future HIV cure studies.


PMCID: PMC4225357
PMID: 25397567 


857. J Int AIDS Soc. 2014 Nov 2;17(4 Suppl 3):19675. doi: 10.7448/IAS.17.4.19675.
eCollection 2014.

Validation of an ultrasensitive digital droplet PCR assay for HIV-2 plasma RNA
quantification.

Ruelle J(1), Yfantis V(1), Duquenne A(1), Goubau P(1).

Author information: 
(1)AIDS Reference Laboratory, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels,
Belgium.

INTRODUCTION: Low or undetectable plasma viral load (VL) using current qPCR
assays is common for HIV-2 patients. Digital PCR is an emerging technology
enabling more precision and reproducibility than qPCR at low DNA/RNA copy
numbers. Available data related to digital droplet PCR (ddPCR, Bio-Rad)
underscore issues linked to the threshold definition of positivity, coupled to
the specificity of low copy results (1).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A RT-PCR protocol was set up using the One-Step RT-ddPCR
Kit for Probes on the QX200 platform (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA) in an accredited
environment (ISO15189:2012 norm). Parameters tested were in line with the digital
MIQE guidelines (2). Inter-run coefficient of variation (CV) was established
using synthetic RNA controls diluted in HIV-negative plasma. The ddPCR assay was 
compared to a qRT-PCR previously used in routine (LOQ 50 cop/mL (3)) using 46
clinical samples and the NIBSC international HIV-2 RNA standard.
RESULTS: The optimal PCR efficiency and the best separation between positive and 
negative droplets were obtained with a mixture containing 0.5 mM manganese
acetate, 700 nM primers and 250 nM of the 5'FAM-probe. Using a manual threshold
to define positivity, 7.74% of negative controls (n=168) were scored as positive 
due to one positive droplet. The presence of two positive droplets or more was
not observed for negative controls. Serial dilutions of a positive control showed
excellent linearity (R2=0.999) and enabled us to define a limit of quantification
of two positives droplets, which corresponds to 0.14 copies/μL in the reaction
mixture and to seven copies per mL of plasma. The inter-run coefficient of
variation was 3.37% at a mean value of 4,468 cop/mL, 19.59% at 416 cop/mL and
32.28% at 8 cop/mL. The NIBSC standard of 1,000 IU was quantified 1,400 copies by
ddPCR and close to 5,000 copies by qPCR (delta log superior to 0.5). Among 46
clinical samples, 22 were undetectable with both qPCR and ddPCR, 12 were detected
with both methods (respective means of 10,612 and 2,224 cop/mL, delta log=0.68)
and 12 others were quantified by ddPCR only below 50 cop/mL (mean=16 cop/mL).
CONCLUSIONS: We validated a ddPCR HIV-2 VL assay that is more sensitive and more 
reproducible than the qPCR assay used as comparator, with a limit of
quantification of 7 cop/mL of plasma. A careful definition of the limit of blank 
allows the management of false positive droplets, but the variable user-defined
positive threshold may be an issue for compliance to the quality norms.


PMCID: PMC4225411
PMID: 25397425 


858. J Int AIDS Soc. 2014 Nov 2;17(4 Suppl 3):19674. doi: 10.7448/IAS.17.4.19674.
eCollection 2014.

Accurate episomal HIV 2-LTR circles quantification using optimized DNA isolation 
and droplet digital PCR.

Malatinkova E(1), Kiselinova M(1), Bonczkowski P(1), Trypsteen W(1), Messiaen
P(2), Vermeire J(3), Verhasselt B(3), Vervisch K(1), Vandekerckhove L(1), De
Spiegelaere W(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Ghent University and University Hospital
Ghent, Ghent, Belgium. (2)Department of Infectious Diseases and Immunity, Jessa
Hospital, Hasselt, Belgium. (3)Department of Clinical Chemistry and Microbiology,
Ghent University and University Hospital Ghent, Ghent, Belgium.

INTRODUCTION: In HIV-infected patients on combination antiretroviral therapy
(cART), the detection of episomal HIV 2-LTR circles is a potential marker for
ongoing viral replication. Quantification of 2-LTR circles is based on
quantitative PCR or more recently on digital PCR assessment, but is hampered due 
to its low abundance. Sample pre-PCR processing is a critical step for 2-LTR
circles quantification, which has not yet been sufficiently evaluated in patient 
derived samples.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We compared two sample processing procedures to more
accurately quantify 2-LTR circles using droplet digital PCR (ddPCR). Episomal HIV
2-LTR circles were either isolated by genomic DNA isolation or by a modified
plasmid DNA isolation, to separate the small episomal circular DNA from
chromosomal DNA. This was performed in a dilution series of HIV-infected cells
and HIV-1 infected patient derived samples (n=59). Samples for the plasmid DNA
isolation method were spiked with an internal control plasmid.
RESULTS: Genomic DNA isolation enables robust 2-LTR circles quantification.
However, in the lower ranges of detection, PCR inhibition caused by high genomic 
DNA load substantially limits the amount of sample input and this impacts
sensitivity and accuracy. Moreover, total genomic DNA isolation resulted in a
lower recovery of 2-LTR templates per isolate, further reducing its sensitivity. 
The modified plasmid DNA isolation with a spiked reference for normalization was 
more accurate in these low ranges compared to genomic DNA isolation. A linear
correlation of both methods was observed in the dilution series (R2=0.974) and in
the patient derived samples with 2-LTR numbers above 10 copies per million
peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), (R2=0.671). Furthermore, Bland-Altman
analysis revealed an average agreement between the methods within the 27 samples 
in which 2-LTR circles were detectable with both methods (bias: 0.3875±1.2657
log10).
CONCLUSIONS: 2-LTR circles quantification in HIV-infected patients proved to be
more accurate with a modified plasmid DNA isolation procedure compared to total
genomic DNA isolation. This method enables the processing of more blood cells,
thus enhancing quantification accuracy and sensitivity. An improved
quantification of 2-LTR circles will contribute to the better understanding of
ongoing replication in the HIV reservoir of patients on cART.


PMCID: PMC4225365
PMID: 25397424 


859. Diabetologia. 2015 Feb;58(2):290-4. doi: 10.1007/s00125-014-3441-3. Epub 2014 Nov
14.

Beneficial effect of a high number of copies of salivary amylase AMY1 gene on
obesity risk in Mexican children.

Mejía-Benítez MA(1), Bonnefond A, Yengo L, Huyvaert M, Dechaume A, Peralta-Romero
J, Klünder-Klünder M, García Mena J, El-Sayed Moustafa JS, Falchi M, Cruz M,
Froguel P.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Genética y Biología Molecular, Centro de Investigación y de
Estudios Avanzados del Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Mexico City, Mexico.

AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: Childhood obesity is a major public health problem in Mexico,
affecting one in every three children. Genome-wide association studies identified
genetic variants associated with childhood obesity, but a large missing
heritability remains to be elucidated. We have recently shown a strong
association between a highly polymorphic copy number variant encompassing the
salivary amylase gene (AMY1 also known as AMY1A) and obesity in European and
Asian adults. In the present study, we aimed to evaluate the association between 
AMY1 copy number and obesity in Mexican children.
METHODS: We evaluated the number of AMY1 copies in 597 Mexican children (293
obese children and 304 normal weight controls) through highly sensitive digital
PCR. The effect of AMY1 copy number on obesity status was assessed using a
logistic regression model adjusted for age and sex.
RESULTS: We identified a marked effect of AMY1 copy number on reduced risk of
obesity (OR per estimated copy 0.84, with the number of copies ranging from one
to 16 in this population; p = 4.25 × 10(-6)). The global association between AMY1
copy number and reduced risk of obesity seemed to be mostly driven by the
contribution of the highest AMY1 copy number. Strikingly, all children with >10
AMY1 copies were normal weight controls.
CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: Salivary amylase initiates the digestion of dietary
starch, which is highly consumed in Mexico. Our current study suggests putative
benefits of high number of AMY1 copies (and related production of salivary
amylase) on energy metabolism in Mexican children.

DOI: 10.1007/s00125-014-3441-3 
PMID: 25394825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. J Clin Microbiol. 2015 Jul;53(7):2008-14. doi: 10.1128/JCM.02136-14. Epub 2014
Nov 12.

Standardization of Nucleic Acid Tests for Clinical Measurements of Bacteria and
Viruses.

Pavšič J(1), Devonshire AS(2), Parkes H(3), Schimmel H(4), Foy CA(3),
Karczmarczyk M(4), Gutiérrez-Aguirre I(5), Honeyborne I(6), Huggett JF(3), McHugh
TD(6), Milavec M(5), Zeichhardt H(7), Žel J(5).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Biology, Department of Biotechnology and Systems
Biology, Ljubljana, Slovenia Jožef Stefan International Postgraduate School,
Ljubljana, Slovenia. (2)LGC, Queens Road, Teddington, Middlesex, United Kingdom
alison.devonshire@lgcgroup.com. (3)LGC, Queens Road, Teddington, Middlesex,
United Kingdom. (4)European Commission Directorate-General Joint Research Centre 
(JRC), Institute for Reference Materials and Measurements, Geel, Belgium.
(5)National Institute of Biology, Department of Biotechnology and Systems
Biology, Ljubljana, Slovenia. (6)Centre for Clinical Microbiology, Department of 
Infection, Royal Free Campus, University College London, London, United Kingdom. 
(7)Charité-University Medicine Berlin, Campus Benjamin Franklin, Institute of
Virology, Berlin, Germany.

Nucleic acid-based tests for infectious diseases currently used in the clinical
laboratory and in point-of-care devices are diverse. Measurement challenges
associated with standardization of quantitative viral load testing are discussed 
in relation to human cytomegalovirus, BK virus, and Epstein-Barr virus, while the
importance of defining the performance of qualitative methods is illustrated with
Mycobacterium tuberculosis and influenza virus. The development of certified
reference materials whose values are traceable to higher-order standards and
reference measurement procedures, using, for instance, digital PCR, will further 
contribute to the understanding of analytical performance characteristics and
promote clinical data comparability.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.02136-14 
PMCID: PMC4473239
PMID: 25392365  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Anal Chem. 2014 Dec 16;86(24):12308-14. doi: 10.1021/ac5035924. Epub 2014 Nov 25.

Self-digitization microfluidic chip for absolute quantification of mRNA in single
cells.

Thompson AM(1), Gansen A, Paguirigan AL, Kreutz JE, Radich JP, Chiu DT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Washington , Seattle, Washington 98195,
United States.

Quantification of mRNA in single cells provides direct insight into how
intercellular heterogeneity plays a role in disease progression and outcomes.
Quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), the current gold standard for
evaluating gene expression, is insufficient for providing absolute measurement of
single-cell mRNA transcript abundance. Challenges include difficulties in
handling small sample volumes and the high variability in measurements.
Microfluidic digital PCR provides far better sensitivity for minute quantities of
genetic material, but the typical format of this assay does not allow for
counting of the absolute number of mRNA transcripts samples taken from single
cells. Furthermore, a large fraction of the sample is often lost during sample
handling in microfluidic digital PCR. Here, we report the absolute quantification
of single-cell mRNA transcripts by digital, one-step reverse transcription PCR in
a simple microfluidic array device called the self-digitization (SD) chip. By
performing the reverse transcription step in digitized volumes, we find that the 
assay exhibits a linear signal across a wide range of total RNA concentrations
and agrees well with standard curve qPCR. The SD chip is found to digitize a high
percentage (86.7%) of the sample for single-cell experiments. Moreover,
quantification of transferrin receptor mRNA in single cells agrees well with
single-molecule fluorescence in situ hybridization experiments. The SD platform
for absolute quantification of single-cell mRNA can be optimized for other genes 
and may be useful as an independent control method for the validation of mRNA
quantification techniques.

DOI: 10.1021/ac5035924 
PMCID: PMC4270397
PMID: 25390242  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Clin Chem. 2015 Jan;61(1):182-90. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2014.230086. Epub 2014
Nov 11.

Screening newborn blood spots for 22q11.2 deletion syndrome using multiplex
droplet digital PCR.

Pretto D(1), Maar D(2), Yrigollen CM(1), Regan J(2), Tassone F(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Medicine, UC Davis Medical Center,
Sacramento, CA; (2)Digital Biology Center, Bio-Rad Laboratories, Pleasanton, CA; 
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Medicine, UC Davis Medical Center,
Sacramento, CA; MIND Institute, UC Davis Medical Center, Sacramento, CA.
ftassone@ucdavis.edu.

BACKGROUND: The diagnosis of 22q11 deletion syndrome (22q11DS) is often delayed
or missed due to the wide spectrum of clinical involvement ranging from mild to
severe, often life-threatening conditions. A delayed diagnosis can lead to
life-long health issues that could be ameliorated with early intervention and
treatment. Owing to the high impact of 22q11DS on public health, propositions
have been made to include 22q11DS in newborn screening panels; however, the
method of choice for detecting 22q11DS, fluorescent in situ hybridization,
requires specialized equipment and is cumbersome for most laboratories to
implement as part of their routine screening. We sought to develop a new genetic 
screen for 22q11DS that is rapid, cost-effective, and easily used by laboratories
currently performing newborn screening.
METHODS: We evaluated the accuracy of multiplex droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) in
the detection of copy number of 22q11DS by screening samples from 26 patients
with 22q11DS blindly intermixed with 1096 blood spot cards from the general
population (total n = 1122).
RESULTS: Multiplex ddPCR correctly identified all 22q11DS samples and
distinguished between 1.5- and 3-Mb deletions, suggesting the approach is
sensitive and specific for the detection of 22q11DS.
CONCLUSIONS: These data demonstrate the utility of multiplex ddPCR for
large-scale population-based studies that screen for 22q11DS. The use of samples 
from blood spot cards suggests that this approach has promise for newborn
screening of 22q11DS, and potentially for other microdeletion syndromes, for
which early detection can positively impact clinical outcome for those affected.

© 2014 American Association for Clinical Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2014.230086 
PMID: 25388430  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. PLoS One. 2014 Nov 10;9(11):e112642. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0112642.
eCollection 2014.

Germ-line transmitted, chromosomally integrated HHV-6 and classical Hodgkin
lymphoma.

Bell AJ(1), Gallagher A(1), Mottram T(1), Lake A(1), Kane EV(2), Lightfoot T(2), 
Roman E(2), Jarrett RF(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC - University of Glasgow Centre for Virus Research, Glasgow, United
Kingdom. (2)Epidemiology and Cancer Statistics Group, Department of Health
Sciences, University of York, York, United Kingdom.

A unique feature of both human herpesvirus 6A and B (HHV-6A and B) among human
herpesviruses is their ability to integrate into chromosomal telomeres. In some
individuals integrated viral genomes are present in the germ-line and result in
the vertical transmission of HHV-6; however, little is known about the disease
associations of germ-line transmitted, chromosomally integrated HHV-6 (ciHHV-6). 
Recent publications suggest that HHV-6 is associated with classical Hodgkin
lymphoma (cHL). Here we examine the prevalence of ciHHV-6 in 936 cases of cHL and
563 controls by screening with a duplex TaqMan assay and confirming with droplet 
digital PCR. ciHHV-6 was detected in 10/563 (1.8%) controls and in all but one
individual the virus was HHV-6B. Amongst cases 16/936 (1.7%) harboured ciHHV-6,
thus demonstrating no association between ciHHV-6 and risk of cHL.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0112642 
PMCID: PMC4226568
PMID: 25384040  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. PLoS One. 2014 Nov 6;9(11):e111781. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0111781.
eCollection 2014.

Transgene detection by digital droplet PCR.

Moser DA(1), Braga L(2), Raso A(2), Zacchigna S(2), Giacca M(2), Simon P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Psychology, Genetic Psychology, Ruhr-University-Bochum, Bochum,
Germany; Department of Sports Medicine, Disease Prevention and Rehabilitation,
Johannes Gutenberg-University Mainz, Mainz, Germany. (2)International Centre for 
Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB), Molecular Medicine, Trieste,
Italy. (3)Department of Sports Medicine, Disease Prevention and Rehabilitation,
Johannes Gutenberg-University Mainz, Mainz, Germany.

Somatic gene therapy is a promising tool for the treatment of severe diseases.
Because of its abuse potential for performance enhancement in sports, the World
Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) included the term 'gene doping' in the official list of
banned substances and methods in 2004. Several nested PCR or qPCR-based
strategies have been proposed that aim at detecting long-term presence of
transgene in blood, but these strategies are hampered by technical limitations.
We developed a digital droplet PCR (ddPCR) protocol for Insulin-Like Growth
Factor 1 (IGF1) detection and demonstrated its applicability monitoring 6 mice
injected into skeletal muscle with AAV9-IGF1 elements and 2 controls over a
33-day period. A duplex ddPCR protocol for simultaneous detection of Insulin-Like
Growth Factor 1 (IGF1) and Erythropoietin (EPO) transgenic elements was created. 
A new DNA extraction procedure with target-orientated usage of restriction
enzymes including on-column DNA-digestion was established. In vivo data revealed 
that IGF1 transgenic elements could be reliably detected for a 33-day period in
DNA extracted from whole blood. In vitro data indicated feasibility of IGF1 and
EPO detection by duplex ddPCR with high reliability and sensitivity. On-column
DNA-digestion allowed for significantly improved target detection in downstream
PCR-based approaches. As ddPCR provides absolute quantification, it ensures
excellent day-to-day reproducibility. Therefore, we expect this technique to be
used in diagnosing and monitoring of viral and bacterial infection, in detecting 
mutated DNA sequences as well as profiling for the presence of foreign genetic
material in elite athletes in the future.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0111781 
PMCID: PMC4222945
PMID: 25375130  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Clin Chem. 2015 Jan;61(1):290-6. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2014.230227. Epub 2014 Oct
31.

Next generation digital PCR measurement of hepatitis B virus copy number in
formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded hepatocellular carcinoma tissue.

Huang JT(1), Liu YJ(2), Wang J(3), Xu ZG(4), Yang Y(1), Shen F(1), Liu XH(5),
Zhou X(1), Liu SM(6).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Gene Diagnosis. (2)Medical Research Center, and. (3)Department of
Translational Molecular Pathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center, Houston, TX; (4)Department of Pathology, Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan
University, Wuhan, China; (5)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Gongli Hospital, 
Second Military Medicine University, Shanghai, China. (6)Center for Gene
Diagnosis, Medical Research Center, and smliu@whu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is strongly associated with hepatitis 
B virus (HBV) infection. False-negative results are common in routine serological
tests and quantitative real-time PCR because of HBV surface antigen (HBsAg)
variation and low HBV copy number. Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR), a next generation
digital PCR, is a novel, sensitive, and specific platform that can be used to
improve HBV detection.
METHODS: A total of 131 HCC cases with different tumor stages and clinical
features were initially classified with a serological test as HBsAg positive (n =
107) or negative (n = 24) for HBV infection. Next, DNA templates were prepared
from the corresponding formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues to
determine HBV copy number by ddPCR.
RESULTS: HBV copy numbers, successfully determined for all clinical FFPE tissues 
(n = 131), ranged from 1.1 to 175.5 copies/μL according to ddPCR. The copy
numbers of HBV were positively correlated with tumor-nodes-metastasis (P = 0.008)
and Barcelona-Clinic Liver Cancer (P = 0.045) classification. Moreover, serum
cholinesterase correlated with hepatitis B viral load (P = 0.006).
CONCLUSIONS: HBV infection is a key factor that influences tumorigenesis in HCC
by regulating tumor occurrence and development. ddPCR improves the analytical
sensitivity and specificity of measurements in nucleic acids at a single-molecule
level and is suitable for HBV detection.

© 2014 American Association for Clinical Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2014.230227 
PMID: 25361948  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. J Clin Microbiol. 2015 Jan;53(1):88-94. doi: 10.1128/JCM.02276-14. Epub 2014 Oct 
29.

Isolation of digital dermatitis treponemes from hoof lesions in Wild North
American Elk (Cervus elaphus) in Washington State, USA.

Clegg SR(1), Mansfield KG(2), Newbrook K(3), Sullivan LE(3), Blowey RW(4), Carter
SD(3), Evans NJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infection Biology, Institute of Infection and Global Health,
School of Veterinary Science, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, United Kingdom 
s.r.clegg@liv.ac.uk. (2)Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife, Spokane
Valley, Washington, USA. (3)Department of Infection Biology, Institute of
Infection and Global Health, School of Veterinary Science, University of
Liverpool, Liverpool, United Kingdom. (4)University of Liverpool and Wood
Veterinary Group, Gloucester, Gloucestershire, United Kingdom.

Since 2008, a large increase in the numbers of cases of lameness have been seen
in wild North American elk (Cervus elaphus) from Washington State, USA. The most 
recent cases manifested as foot lesions similar both clinically and
pathologically to those seen in digital dermatitis (DD) in cattle and sheep, a
disease with a bacterial etiopathogenesis. To determine whether the same bacteria
considered responsible for DD are associated with elk lameness, lesion samples
were subjected to bacterial isolation studies and PCR assays for three
phylogroups of relevant DD treponemes. The DD treponemes were isolated from
lesional tissues but not from control feet or other areas of the diseased foot
(including the coronary band or interdigital space), suggesting that the bacteria
are strongly associated with DD lesions and may therefore be causal. In addition,
PCR analysis revealed that all three unique DD treponeme phylotypes were found in
elk hoof disease, and in 23% of samples, all 3 DD-associated treponemes were
present in lesions. Sequence analysis of the 16S rRNA gene showed that the elk
lesion treponemes were phylogenetically almost identical to those isolated from
cattle and sheep DD lesions. The isolates were particularly similar to two of the
three culturable DD treponeme phylotypes: specifically, the Treponema
medium/Treponema vincentii-like and Treponema phagedenis-like DD spirochetes. The
third treponeme culturable phylogroup (Treponema pedis), although detected by
PCR, was not isolated. This is the first report describing isolation of DD
treponemes from a wildlife host, suggesting that the disease may be evolving to
include a wider spectrum of cloven-hoofed animals.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.02276-14 
PMCID: PMC4290963
PMID: 25355757  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Lab Chip. 2015 Jan 7;15(1):225-36. doi: 10.1039/c4lc00794h.

A droplet-to-digital (D2D) microfluidic device for single cell assays.

Shih SC(1), Gach PC, Sustarich J, Simmons BA, Adams PD, Singh S, Singh AK.

Author information: 
(1)Sandia National Laboratories, 7011 East Ave, Livermore, CA, USA.
aksingh@sandia.gov.

We have developed a new hybrid droplet-to-digital microfluidic platform (D2D)
that integrates droplet-in-channel microfluidics with digital microfluidics (DMF)
for performing multi-step assays. This D2D platform combines the strengths of the
two formats-droplets-in-channel for facile generation of droplets containing
single cells, and DMF for on-demand manipulation of droplets including control of
different droplet volumes (pL-μL), creation of a dilution series of ionic liquid 
(IL), and parallel single cell culturing and analysis for IL toxicity screening. 
This D2D device also allows for automated analysis that includes a
feedback-controlled system for merging and splitting of droplets to add reagents,
an integrated Peltier element for parallel cell culture at optimum temperature,
and an impedance sensing mechanism to control the flow rate for droplet
generation and preventing droplet evaporation. Droplet-in-channel is well-suited 
for encapsulation of single cells as it allows the careful manipulation of flow
rates of aqueous phase containing cells and oil to optimize encapsulation. Once
single cell containing droplets are generated, they are transferred to a DMF chip
via a capillary where they are merged with droplets containing IL and cultured at
30 °C. The DMF chip, in addition to permitting cell culture and reagent (ionic
liquid/salt) addition, also allows recovery of individual droplets for off-chip
analysis such as further culturing and measurement of ethanol production. The D2D
chip was used to evaluate the effect of IL/salt type (four types: NaOAc, NaCl,
[C2mim] [OAc], [C2mim] [Cl]) and concentration (four concentrations: 0, 37.5, 75,
150 mM) on the growth kinetics and ethanol production of yeast and as expected,
increasing IL concentration led to lower biomass and ethanol production.
Specifically, [C2mim] [OAc] had inhibitory effects on yeast growth at
concentrations 75 and 150 mM and significantly reduced their ethanol production
compared to cells grown in other ILs/salts. The growth curve trends obtained by
D2D matched conventional yeast culturing in microtiter wells, validating the D2D 
platform. We believe that our approach represents a generic platform for
multi-step biochemical assays such as drug screening, digital PCR, enzyme assays,
immunoassays and cell-based assays.

DOI: 10.1039/c4lc00794h 
PMID: 25354549  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Mol Psychiatry. 2015 Oct;20(10):1188-96. doi: 10.1038/mp.2014.127. Epub 2014 Oct 
28.

Prognostic serum miRNA biomarkers associated with Alzheimer's disease shows
concordance with neuropsychological and neuroimaging assessment.

Cheng L(1,)(2), Doecke JD(3,)(4), Sharples RA(1,)(2), Villemagne VL(5,)(6,)(7),
Fowler CJ(7), Rembach A(7), Martins RN(8), Rowe CC(5,)(6), Macaulay SL(4),
Masters CL(7), Hill AF(1,)(2); Australian Imaging, Biomarkers and Lifestyle
(AIBL) Research Group.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, The University of Melbourne,
Melbourne, VIC, Australia. (2)Bio21 Molecular Science and Biotechnology
Institute, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, Australia. (3)CSIRO
Digital Productivity Flagship/The Australian E-Health Research Centre, Herston,
QLD, Australia. (4)CSIRO Food and Nutrition Flagship, Melbourne, VIC, Australia. 
(5)Department of Nuclear Medicine and Centre for PET, Austin Health, Melbourne,
VIC, Australia. (6)Department of Medicine, Austin Health, Melbourne, VIC,
Australia. (7)Florey Institute, Melbourne, VIC, Australia. (8)Faculty of
Computing Health and Science, Centre of Excellence for Alzheimer's Disease
Research and Care, School of Medical Sciences, Edith Cowan University, Joondalup,
WA, Australia.

There is no consensus for a blood-based test for the early diagnosis of
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Expression profiling of small non-coding RNA's,
microRNA (miRNA), has revealed diagnostic potential in human diseases.
Circulating miRNA are found in small vesicles known as exosomes within biological
fluids such as human serum. The aim of this work was to determine a set of
differential exosomal miRNA biomarkers between healthy and AD patients, which may
aid in diagnosis. Using next-generation deep sequencing, we profiled exosomal
miRNA from serum (N=49) collected from the Australian Imaging, Biomarkers and
Lifestyle Flagship Study (AIBL). Sequencing results were validated using
quantitative reverse transcription PCR (qRT-PCR; N=60), with predictions
performed using the Random Forest method. Additional risk factors collected
during the 4.5-year AIBL Study including clinical, medical and cognitive
assessments, and amyloid neuroimaging with positron emission tomography were
assessed. An AD-specific 16-miRNA signature was selected and adding established
risk factors including age, sex and apolipoprotein ɛ4 (APOE ɛ4) allele status to 
the panel of deregulated miRNA resulted in a sensitivity and specificity of 87%
and 77%, respectively, for predicting AD. Furthermore, amyloid neuroimaging
information for those healthy control subjects incorrectly classified with
AD-suggested progression in these participants towards AD. These data suggest
that an exosomal miRNA signature may have potential to be developed as a suitable
peripheral screening tool for AD.

DOI: 10.1038/mp.2014.127 
PMID: 25349172  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Clin Chem. 2015 Jan;61(1):79-88. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2014.221366. Epub 2014 Oct
22.

Considerations for digital PCR as an accurate molecular diagnostic tool.

Huggett JF(1), Cowen S(2), Foy CA(2).

Author information: 
(1)LGC, Teddington, UK; Research Department of Infection, Division of Infection
and Immunity, UCL, London, UK. jim.huggett@lgcgroup.com. (2)LGC, Teddington, UK;

BACKGROUND: Digital PCR (dPCR) is an increasingly popular manifestation of PCR
that offers a number of unique advantages when applied to preclinical research,
particularly when used to detect rare mutations and in the precise quantification
of nucleic acids. As is common with many new research methods, the application of
dPCR to potential clinical scenarios is also being increasingly described.
CONTENT: This review addresses some of the factors that need to be considered in 
the application of dPCR. Compared to real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR), dPCR
clearly has the potential to offer more sensitive and considerably more
reproducible clinical methods that could lend themselves to diagnostic,
prognostic, and predictive tests. But for this to be realized the technology will
need to be further developed to reduce cost and simplify application.
Concomitantly the preclinical research will need be reported with a comprehensive
understanding of the associated errors. dPCR benefits from a far more predictable
variance than qPCR but is as susceptible to upstream errors associated with
factors like sampling and extraction. dPCR can also suffer systematic bias,
particularly leading to underestimation, and internal positive controls are
likely to be as important for dPCR as they are for qPCR, especially when
reporting the absence of a sequence.
SUMMARY: In this review we highlight some of the considerations that may be
needed when applying dPCR and discuss sources of error. The factors discussed
here aim to assist in the translation of dPCR to diagnostic, predictive, or
prognostic applications.

© 2014 American Association for Clinical Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2014.221366 
PMID: 25338683  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. J Med Genet. 2014 Dec;51(12):817-23. doi: 10.1136/jmedgenet-2014-102576. Epub
2014 Oct 20.

Absent expression of the osteoblast-specific maternally imprinted genes, DLX5 and
DLX6, causes split hand/split foot malformation type I.

Rattanasopha S(1), Tongkobpetch S(2), Srichomthong C(2), Kitidumrongsook P(3),
Suphapeetiporn K(2), Shotelersuk V(2).

Author information: 
(1)Doctor of Philosophy Program in Medical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine,
Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, Thailand. (2)Department of Pediatrics, Center 
of Excellence for Medical Genetics, Faculty of Medicine, Chulalongkorn
University, Bangkok, Thailand Excellence Center for Medical Genetics, King
Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, The Thai Red Cross Society, Bangkok, Thailand.
(3)Department of Orthopedics, Faculty of Medicine, Chulalongkorn University,
Bangkok, Thailand.

BACKGROUND: Split hand/split foot malformation (SHFM) type 1 is characterised by 
missing central digital rays with clefts of the hands and/or feet, which was
linked to chromosome 7q21.3. While double knockout of Dlx5 and Dlx6 resulted in
limb defects in mice, the majority of patients with SHFM1 had only heterozygous
chromosomal abnormalities.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the clinical and molecular features of a large family
with SHFM1.
METHODS: Blood samples of family members were investigated by linkage analysis,
array comparative genomic hybridisation, exome sequencing and PCR-Sanger
sequencing. Cultures from bone specimens obtained from the proband and an
unrelated unaffected individual were established and subjected to quantitative
real-time PCR, reverse-transcribed PCR, Western blot and imprinting analysis.
RESULTS: We report a large pedigree of SHFM1 with 10 members having a
heterozygous 103 kb deletion, the smallest one ever reported to be associated
with SHFM1. Of these 10, two had no limb anomalies, making a penetrance of 80%.
The deletion encompassed exons 15 and 17 of DYNC1I1, which are known enhancers of
two downstream genes, DLX5 and DLX6. Surprisingly, DLX5 and DLX6 RNA and proteins
in our proband's cultured osteoblasts, instead of 50% decrease, were absent.
Allelic expression studies in cultured osteoblasts of the unaffected individual
showed that DSS1, DLX6 and DLX5 expressed only paternal alleles. These lines of
evidence indicate that DSS1, DLX6 and DLX5 were maternally imprinted in
osteoblasts.
CONCLUSIONS: SHFM1 in our family is caused by a heterozygous paternal deletion of
enhancers of the osteoblast-specific maternally imprinted DLX6 and DLX5 genes,
leading to the absence of their proteins.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/jmedgenet-2014-102576 
PMID: 25332435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. PLoS One. 2014 Oct 16;9(10):e110351. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0110351.
eCollection 2014.

A comparison between droplet digital and quantitative PCR in the analysis of
bacterial 16S load in lung tissue samples from control and COPD GOLD 2.

Sze MA(1), Abbasi M(2), Hogg JC(1), Sin DD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Heart Lung Innovation, St. Paul's Hospital, Departments of Medicine
and Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
BC, Canada. (2)BioRad Laboratories, Mississauga, ON, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Low biomass in the bacterial lung tissue microbiome utilizes
quantitative PCR (qPCR) 16S bacterial assays at their limit of detection. New
technology like droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) could allow for higher sensitivity
and accuracy of quantification. These attributes are needed if specific bacteria 
within the bacterial lung tissue microbiome are to be evaluated as potential
contributors to diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). We
hypothesize that ddPCR is better at quantifying the total bacterial load in lung 
tissue versus qPCR.
METHODS: Control (n = 16) and COPD GOLD 2 (n = 16) tissue samples were obtained
from patients who underwent lung resection surgery, were cut on a cryotome, and
sections were assigned for use in quantitative histology or for DNA extraction.
qPCR and ddPCR were performed on these samples using primers spanning the V2
region on the 16S rRNA gene along with negative controls. Total 16S counts were
compared between the two methods. Both methods were assessed for correlations
with quantitative histology measurements of the tissue.
RESULTS: There was no difference in the average total 16S counts (P>0.05) between
the two methods. However, the negative controls contained significantly lower
counts in the ddPCR (0.55 ± 0.28 16S/uL) than in the qPCR assay (1.00 ± 0.70 16S 
copies) (P <0.05). The coefficient of variation was significantly lower for the
ddPCR assay (0.18 ± 0.14) versus the qPCR assay (0.62 ± 0.29) (P<0.05).
CONCLUSION: Overall the ddPCR 16S assay performed better by reducing the
background noise in 16S of the negative controls compared with 16S qPCR assay.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0110351 
PMCID: PMC4199711
PMID: 25329701  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Lab Chip. 2015 Jan 7;15(1):151-8. doi: 10.1039/c4lc00703d.

A solvent replenishment solution for managing evaporation of biochemical
reactions in air-matrix digital microfluidics devices.

Jebrail MJ(1), Renzi RF, Sinha A, Van De Vreugde J, Gondhalekar C, Ambriz C,
Meagher RJ, Branda SS.

Author information: 
(1)Biotechnology and Bioengineering, Sandia National Laboratories, Livermore, CA,
USA. sbranda@sandia.gov.

Digital microfluidics (DMF) is a powerful technique for sample preparation and
analysis for a broad range of biological and chemical applications. In many
cases, it is desirable to carry out DMF on an open surface, such that the matrix 
surrounding the droplets is ambient air. However, the utility of the air-matrix
DMF format has been severely limited by problems with droplet evaporation,
especially when the droplet-based biochemical reactions require high temperatures
for long periods of time. We present a simple solution for managing evaporation
in air-matrix DMF: just-in-time replenishment of the reaction volume using
droplets of solvent. We demonstrate that this solution enables DMF-mediated
execution of several different biochemical reactions (RNA fragmentation,
first-strand cDNA synthesis, and PCR) over a range of temperatures (4-95 °C) and 
incubation times (up to 1 h or more) without use of oil, humidifying chambers, or
off-chip heating modules. Reaction volumes and temperatures were maintained
roughly constant over the course of each experiment, such that the reaction
kinetics and products generated by the air-matrix DMF device were comparable to
those of conventional benchscale reactions. This simple yet effective solution
for evaporation management is an important advance in developing air-matrix DMF
for a wide variety of new, high-impact applications, particularly in the
biomedical sciences.

DOI: 10.1039/c4lc00703d 
PMID: 25325619  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Cancer Discov. 2015 Jan;5(1):64-71. doi: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-14-0742. Epub 2014 
Oct 16.

Prospective blinded study of BRAFV600E mutation detection in cell-free DNA of
patients with systemic histiocytic disorders.

Hyman DM(1), Diamond EL(2), Vibat CR(3), Hassaine L(3), Poole JC(3), Patel M(4), 
Holley VR(5), Cabrilo G(5), Lu TT(3), Arcila ME(6), Chung YR(7), Rampal R(4),
Lacouture ME(8), Rosen N(9), Meric-Bernstam F(5), Baselga J(10), Kurzrock R(11), 
Erlander MG(3), Janku F(5), Abdel-Wahab O(12).

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Therapeutics Unit, Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan
Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York. (2)Department of Neurology, Memorial
Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York. (3)Trovagene, Inc., San Diego,
California. (4)Leukemia Service, Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering
Cancer Center, New York, New York. (5)Department of Investigational Cancer
Therapeutics (Phase I Program), The MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(6)Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New
York. (7)Human Oncology and Pathogenesis Program, Department of Medicine,
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York. (8)Dermatology
Service, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York. (9)Program
in Molecular Pharmacology, Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering
Cancer Center, New York, New York. (10)Developmental Therapeutics Unit,
Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New
York. Human Oncology and Pathogenesis Program, Department of Medicine, Memorial
Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York. (11)Moores Cancer Center,
University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California. (12)Leukemia Service, 
Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New
York. Human Oncology and Pathogenesis Program, Department of Medicine, Memorial
Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York. abdelwao@mskcc.org.

Patients with Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH) and Erdheim-Chester disease
(ECD) have a high frequency of BRAF(V600E) mutations and respond to RAF
inhibitors. However, detection of mutations in tissue biopsies is particularly
challenging in histiocytoses due to low tumor content and stromal contamination. 
We applied a droplet-digital PCR assay for quantitative detection of the
BRAF(V600E) mutation in plasma and urine cell-free (cf) DNA and performed a
prospective, blinded study in 30 patients with ECD/LCH. There was 100%
concordance between tissue and urinary cfDNA genotype in treatment-naïve samples.
cfDNA analysis facilitated identification of previously undescribed
KRAS(G12S)-mutant ECD and dynamically tracked disease burden in patients treated 
with a variety of therapies. These results indicate that cfDNA BRAF(V600E)
mutational analysis in plasma and urine provides a convenient and reliable method
of detecting mutational status and can serve as a noninvasive biomarker to
monitor response to therapy in LCH and ECD.SIGNIFICANCE: Patients with
BRAF(V600E)-mutant histiocytic disorders have remarkable responses to RAF
inhibition, but mutation detection in tissue in these disorders is challenging.
Here, we identify that analysis of plasma and urinary cfDNA provides a reliable
method to detect the BRAF(V600E) mutation and monitor response to therapy in
these disorders.

©2014 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-14-0742 
PMID: 25324352  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Oct 28;111(43):15474-9. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1409328111. Epub 2014 Oct 13.

Maternal age effect and severe germ-line bottleneck in the inheritance of human
mitochondrial DNA.

Rebolledo-Jaramillo B(1), Su MS(2), Stoler N(1), McElhoe JA(3), Dickins B(4),
Blankenberg D(1), Korneliussen TS(5), Chiaromonte F(6), Nielsen R(7), Holland
MM(3), Paul IM(8), Nekrutenko A(9), Makova KD(10).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology. (2)Biology, and.
(3)Forensic Science Program, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA
16802; (4)School of Science and Technology, Nottingham Trent University,
Nottingham NG1 4BU, United Kingdom; (5)Department of Integrative Biology,
University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720; Centre for GeoGenetics, Natural
History Museum of Denmark, University of Copenhagen, DK-1350 Copenhagen, Denmark;
and. (6)Statistics. (7)Department of Integrative Biology, University of
California, Berkeley, CA 94720; (8)Department of Pediatrics, College of Medicine,
Pennsylvania State University, Hershey, PA 17033. (9)Departments of Biochemistry 
and Molecular Biology, anton@bx.psu.edu kdm16@psu.edu. (10)Biology, and
anton@bx.psu.edu kdm16@psu.edu.

The manifestation of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) diseases depends on the frequency 
of heteroplasmy (the presence of several alleles in an individual), yet its
transmission across generations cannot be readily predicted owing to a lack of
data on the size of the mtDNA bottleneck during oogenesis. For deleterious
heteroplasmies, a severe bottleneck may abruptly transform a benign (low)
frequency in a mother into a disease-causing (high) frequency in her child. Here 
we present a high-resolution study of heteroplasmy transmission conducted on
blood and buccal mtDNA of 39 healthy mother-child pairs of European ancestry (a
total of 156 samples, each sequenced at ∼20,000× per site). On average, each
individual carried one heteroplasmy, and one in eight individuals carried a
disease-associated heteroplasmy, with minor allele frequency ≥1%. We observed
frequent drastic heteroplasmy frequency shifts between generations and estimated 
the effective size of the germ-line mtDNA bottleneck at only ∼30-35
(interquartile range from 9 to 141). Accounting for heteroplasmies, we estimated 
the mtDNA germ-line mutation rate at 1.3 × 10(-8) (interquartile range from 4.2 ×
10(-9) to 4.1 × 10(-8)) mutations per site per year, an order of magnitude higher
than for nuclear DNA. Notably, we found a positive association between the number
of heteroplasmies in a child and maternal age at fertilization, likely
attributable to oocyte aging. This study also took advantage of droplet digital
PCR (ddPCR) to validate heteroplasmies and confirm a de novo mutation. Our
results can be used to predict the transmission of disease-causing mtDNA variants
and illuminate evolutionary dynamics of the mitochondrial genome.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1409328111 
PMCID: PMC4217420
PMID: 25313049  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. BMC Med Genet. 2014 Oct 14;15:106. doi: 10.1186/s12881-014-0106-5.

Mapping the deletion endpoints in individuals with 22q11.2 deletion syndrome by
droplet digital PCR.

Hwang VJ, Maar D, Regan J, Angkustsiri K, Simon TJ, Tassone F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Medicine, UC Davis, 2700 Stockton
Blvd, Suite 2102, Sacramento 95817, CA, USA. ftassone@ucdavis.edu.

BACKGROUND: Chromosome 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22q11DS) is the most common
human microdeletion syndrome and is associated with many cognitive, neurological 
and psychiatric disorders. The majority of individuals have a 3 Mb deletion while
others have a nested 1.5 Mb deletion, but rare atypical deletions have also been 
described. To date, a study using droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) has not been
conducted to systematically map the chromosomal breakpoints in individuals with
22q11DS, which would provide important genotypic insight into the various
phenotypes observed in this syndrome.
METHODS: This study uses ddPCR to assess copy number (CN) changes within the
chromosome 22q11 deletion region and allows the mapping of the deletion
endpoints. We used eight TaqMan assays interspersed throughout the deleted region
of 22q11.2 to characterize the deleted region of chromosome 22 in 80 individuals 
known to have 22q11DS by FISH. Ten EvaGreen assays were used for finer mapping of
the six identified individuals with 22q11DS atypical deletions and covering
different regions of chromosome 22.
RESULTS: ddPCR provided non-ambiguous CN measurements across the region,
confirmed the presence of the deletion in the individuals screened, and led to
the identification of five differently sized and located deletions. The majority 
of the participants (n = 74) had the large 3 Mb deletions, whereas three had the 
smaller 1.5 Mb deletions, and the remaining three had an interstitial deletion of
different size.
CONCLUSIONS: The lower cost, rapid execution and high reliability and specificity
provided by ddPCR for CN measurements in the 22q11 region constitutes a
significant improvement over the variable CN values generated by other
technologies. The ability of the ddPCR approach, to provide a high resolution
mapping of deletion endpoints may result in the identification of genes that are 
haplo-insufficient and play a role in the pathogenesis of 22q11DS. Finally, this 
methodology can be applied to the characterization of other microdeletions
throughout the genome.

DOI: 10.1186/s12881-014-0106-5 
PMCID: PMC4258952
PMID: 25312060  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Curr Eye Res. 2015 Sep;40(9):891-901. doi: 10.3109/02713683.2014.968934. Epub
2014 Oct 13.

Critical Role of IP-10 on Reducing Experimental Corneal Neovascularization.

Liu G(1), Zhang W, Xiao Y, Lu P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow
University , Suzhou , China and.

AIM AND SCOPE: To address the role of interferon-induced protein of 10 kDa
(IP-10) in the course of corneal neovascularization (CrNV) in a mouse model of
experimental corneal neovascularization.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: BALB/c mice that were 7- to 8-week-old male were included in
the study. Corneal injury was induced by NaOH. Mice were randomly divided into 2 
groups of IP-10 and vehicle. The alkali-treated eyes received 5 μl of 5 μg/ml
IP-10 dissolved in 0.2% sodium hyaluronate for IP-10-treated group, or 5 μl of
0.2% sodium hyaluronate for vehicle-treated group twice a day for 7 days
immediately after the alkali injury. 2 weeks after alkali injury, corneas were
removed and used for whole mount CD31 staining. The percentages of
neovascularization on corneal photographs were examined with digital image
analysis. In other experiments, at indicated time intervals, the corneas were
removed. Angiogenic factor expression in the early phase after injury was
quantified by real-time PCR and western blot. The VEGF expression in macrophages 
infiltrating into burned corneas was examined by Flow cytometry (FCM) and
immunofluorescence. Tube formation and cell proliferation of human retinal
endothelial cells (HRECs) were detected after being stimulated with IP-10 in
vitro.
RESULTS: The mRNA and protein expression of IP-10 and C-X-C motif chemokine
receptor 3 (CXCR3) was augmented after the alkali injury (p < 0.05). Compared
with vehicle-treated mice, IP-10-treated mice exhibited reduced CrNV 2 weeks
after injury, as evidenced by diminished CD31-positive areas (p < 0.05).
Concomitantly, the intracorneal mRNA and protein expression enhancement of
vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and basic fibroblast growth factor
(bFGF) was lower in IP-10-treated mice than in vehicle-treated mice after injury 
(p < 0.05). Moreover, IP-10 inhibited HREC tube formation and proliferation in
vitro.
CONCLUSION: IP-10-treated mice exhibited reduced alkali-induced CrNV through
decreasing intracorneal VEGF and bFGF expression, and inhibiting endothelial cell
proliferation and tube formation.

DOI: 10.3109/02713683.2014.968934 
PMID: 25309995  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Prostate. 2015 Feb;75(2):200-10. doi: 10.1002/pros.22905. Epub 2014 Oct 13.

Dietary influences on tissue concentrations of phytanic acid and AMACR expression
in the benign human prostate.

Kataria Y(1), Wright M, Deaton RJ, Rueter EE, Rybicki BA, Moser AB,
Ananthanrayanan V, Gann PH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, Illinois.

BACKGROUND: Alpha-methylacyl-CoA racemase (AMACR) is an enzyme involved in fatty 
acid metabolism that is markedly over-expressed in virtually all prostate cancers
(PCa), relative to benign tissue. One of AMACR's primary substrates, phytanic
acid, is derived predominately from red meat and dairy product consumption.
Epidemiological evidence suggests links between dairy/red meat intake, as well as
phytanic acid levels, and elevated PCa risk. This study investigates the
relationships among dietary intake, serum and tissue concentrations of phytanic
acid, and AMACR expression (mRNA and protein) in the histologically benign human 
prostate.
METHODS: Men undergoing radical prostatectomy for the treatment of localized
disease provided a food frequency questionnaire (n = 68), fasting blood (n = 35),
benign fresh frozen prostate tissue (n = 26), and formalin-fixed
paraffin-embedded (FFPE) sections (n = 67). Serum and tissue phytanic acid
concentrations were obtained by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. We
extracted RNA from epithelial cells using laser capture microdissection and
quantified mRNA expression of AMACR and other genes involved in the peroxisomal
phytanic acid metabolism pathway via qRT-PCR. Immunohistochemistry for AMACR was 
performed on FFPE sections and subsequently quantified via digital image
analysis. Associations between diet, serum, and tissue phytanic acid levels, as
well as AMACR and other gene expression levels were assessed by partial Spearman 
correlation coefficients.
RESULTS: High-fat dairy intake was the strongest predictor of circulating
phytanic acid concentrations (r = 0.35, P = 0.04). Tissue phytanic acid
concentrations were not associated with any dietary sources and were only weakly 
correlated with serum levels (r = 0.29, P = 0.15). AMACR gene expression was not 
associated with serum phytanic acid (r = 0.13, P = 0.47), prostatic phytanic acid
concentrations (r = 0.03, P = 0.88), or AMACR protein expression (r = -0.16,
P = 0.20).
CONCLUSIONS: Our data underscore the complexity of the relationship between AMACR
and its substrates and do not support the unifying hypothesis that excess levels 
of dietary phytanic acid are responsible for both the overexpression of AMACR in 
prostate cancer and the potential association between PCa risk and intake of
dairy foods and red meat.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/pros.22905 
PMCID: PMC4778716
PMID: 25307752  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Environ Sci Technol. 2014 Nov 4;48(21):12800-6. doi: 10.1021/es5034052. Epub 2014
Oct 23.

Quantifying environmental DNA signals for aquatic invasive species across
multiple detection platforms.

Nathan LM(1), Simmons M, Wegleitner BJ, Jerde CL, Mahon AR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Institute for Great Lakes Research, Central Michigan
University , Mount Pleasant, Michigan 48859 United States.

The use of molecular surveillance techniques has become popular among aquatic
researchers and managers due to the improved sensitivity and efficiency compared 
to traditional sampling methods. Rapid expansion in the use of environmental DNA 
(eDNA), paired with the advancement of molecular technologies, has resulted in
new detection platforms and techniques. In this study we present a comparison of 
three eDNA surveillance platforms: traditional polymerase chain reaction (PCR),
quantitative PCR (qPCR), and digital droplet PCR (ddPCR) in which water samples
were collected over a 24 h time period from mesocosm experiments containing a
population gradient of invasive species densities. All platforms reliably
detected the presence of DNA, even at low target organism densities within the
first hour. The two quantitative platforms (qPCR and ddPCR) produced similar
estimates of DNA concentrations. The analyses completed with ddPCR was faster
from sample collection through analyses and cost approximately half the
expenditure of qPCR. Although a new platform for eDNA surveillance of aquatic
species, ddPCR was consistent with more commonly used qPCR and a cost-effective
means of estimating DNA concentrations. Use of ddPCR by researchers and managers 
should be considered in future eDNA surveillance applications.

DOI: 10.1021/es5034052 
PMID: 25299381  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Int J Biol Sci. 2014 Sep 12;10(9):1051-63. doi: 10.7150/ijbs.9438. eCollection
2014.

Transcriptome characterization analysis of Bactrocera minax and new insights into
its pupal diapause development with gene expression analysis.

Dong Y(1), Desneux N(2), Lei C(1), Niu C(1).

Author information: 
(1)1. Hubei Insect Resources Utilization and Sustainable Pest Management Key
Laboratory, College of Plant Science and Technology, Huazhong Agricultural
University, Wuhan, 430070, China. (2)2. French National Institute for
Agricultural Research (INRA), UMR1355-ISA, 400 Route des Chappes, 06903,
Sophia-Antipolis, France.

Bactrocera minax is a major citrus pest distributed in China, Bhutan and India.
The long pupal diapause duration of this fly is a major bottleneck for artificial
rearing and underlying mechanisms remain unknown. Genetic information on B. minax
transcriptome and gene expression profiles are needed to understand its pupal
diapause. High-throughput RNA-seq technology was used to characterize the B.
minax transcriptome and to identify differentially expressed genes during pupal
diapause development. A total number of 52,519,948 reads were generated and
assembled into 47,217 unigenes. 26,843 unigenes matched to proteins in the NCBI
database using the BLAST search. Four digital gene expression (DGE) libraries
were constructed for pupae at early diapause, late diapause, post-diapause and
diapause terminated developmental status. 4,355 unigenes showing the differences 
expressed across four libraries revealed major shifts in cellular functions of
cell proliferation, protein processing and export, metabolism and stress response
in pupal diapause. When diapause was terminated by 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E), many
genes involved in ribosome and metabolism were differentially expressed which may
mediate diapause transition. The gene sets involved in protein and energy
metabolisms varied throughout early-, late- and post-diapause. A total of 15
genes were selected to verify the DGE results through quantitative real-time PCR 
(qRT-PCR); qRT-PCR expression levels strongly correlated with the DGE data. The
results provided the extensive sequence resources available for B. minax and
increased our knowledge on its pupal diapause development and they shed new light
on the possible mechanisms involved in pupal diapause in this species.

DOI: 10.7150/ijbs.9438 
PMCID: PMC4183925
PMID: 25285037  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Clin Microbiol Rev. 2014 Oct;27(4):783-822. doi: 10.1128/CMR.00003-14.

Emerging technologies for the clinical microbiology laboratory.

Buchan BW(1), Ledeboer NA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin,
USA. (2)Department of Pathology, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee,
Wisconsin, USA nledeboe@mcw.edu.

In this review we examine the literature related to emerging technologies that
will help to reshape the clinical microbiology laboratory. These topics include
nucleic acid amplification tests such as isothermal and point-of-care molecular
diagnostics, multiplexed panels for syndromic diagnosis, digital PCR,
next-generation sequencing, and automation of molecular tests. We also review
matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) and
electrospray ionization (ESI) mass spectrometry methods and their role in
identification of microorganisms. Lastly, we review the shift to liquid-based
microbiology and the integration of partial and full laboratory automation that
are beginning to impact the clinical microbiology laboratory.

Copyright © 2014, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/CMR.00003-14 
PMCID: PMC4187641
PMID: 25278575  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Diagn Microbiol Infect Dis. 2014 Dec;80(4):285-6. doi:
10.1016/j.diagmicrobio.2014.09.004. Epub 2014 Sep 16.

A multiplexed droplet digital PCR assay performs better than qPCR on inhibition
prone samples.

Sedlak RH(1), Kuypers J(1), Jerome KR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Virology Laboratory, Department of Laboratory Medicine, University
of Washington, Seattle, WA. (2)Molecular Virology Laboratory, Department of
Laboratory Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA; Vaccine Infectious
Disease Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA. Electronic
address: kjerome@fhcrc.org.

We demonstrate the development of a multiplex droplet digital PCR assay for human
cytomegalovirus (CMV), human adenovirus species F, and an internal plasmid
control that may be useful for PCR inhibition-prone clinical samples. This assay 
performs better on inhibition-prone stool samples than a quantitative PCR assay
for CMV and is the first published clinical virology droplet digital PCR assay to
incorporate an internal control.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diagmicrobio.2014.09.004 
PMID: 25277746  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Mar Genomics. 2015 Feb;19:31-8. doi: 10.1016/j.margen.2014.09.004. Epub 2014 Sep 
26.

Deep sequencing of the scallop Chlamys farreri transcriptome response to
tetrabromobisphenol A (TBBPA) stress.

Hu F(1), Pan L(2), Cai Y(1), Liu T(1), Jin Q(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Key Laboratory of Mariculture, Ministry of Education, Ocean University of 
China, Qingdao 266003, PR China. (2)The Key Laboratory of Mariculture, Ministry
of Education, Ocean University of China, Qingdao 266003, PR China. Electronic
address: panlq@ouc.edu.cn.

Tetrabromobisphenol-A (TBBPA) is currently the most widely used brominated flame 
retardant (BFR) and has been proven to have a very high toxicity to aquatic
organisms including bivalves. However, molecular responses to TBBPA in bivalve
remain largely unknown. Novel high-throughput deep sequencing technology has been
a powerful tool for looking at molecular responses to toxicological stressors in 
organisms. Using Illumina's digital gene expression (DGE) system, we investigated
TBBPA-induced transcriptome response in the digestive gland tissue of scallop
Chlamys farreri. In total, 173 and 266 genes were identified as significantly up-
or down-regulated, respectively. Functional analysis based on gene ontology (GO) 
classification system and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) database
revealed that TBBPA significantly altered the expression of genes involved in
stress response, detoxification, antioxidation, and innate immunity which were
extensively discussed. In particular, evidence for the endocrine disrupting
effect of TBBPA on bivalve was first obtained in this study. Quantitative
real-time PCR was performed to ascertain the mRNA expression of several genes
identified by the DGE analysis. The results of this study may serve as a basis
for future research on molecular mechanism of toxic effects of TBBPA on marine
bivalves.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.margen.2014.09.004 
PMID: 25260812  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Stem Cell Reports. 2014 Aug 12;3(2):227-33. doi: 10.1016/j.stemcr.2014.05.019.
Epub 2014 Jun 26.

Whole-genome sequencing identifies genetic variances in culture-expanded human
mesenchymal stem cells.

Cai J(1), Miao X(2), Li Y(1), Smith C(3), Tsang K(4), Cheng L(5), Wang QF(6).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Genome Variations and Precision Bio-Medicine, Beijing Institute 
of Genomics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China. (2)Laboratory of
Genome Variations and Precision Bio-Medicine, Beijing Institute of Genomics,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China; University of Chinese Academy
of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China. (3)Predoctoral Training Program in Human
Genetics, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA; 
Stem Cell Program, Institute for Cell Engineering, and Division of Hematology,
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. (4)Stem
Cell Program, Institute for Cell Engineering, and Division of Hematology, Johns
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. (5)Predoctoral
Training Program in Human Genetics, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD 21205, USA; Stem Cell Program, Institute for Cell Engineering, and 
Division of Hematology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore,
MD 21205, USA. Electronic address: lcheng2@jhmi.edu. (6)Laboratory of Genome
Variations and Precision Bio-Medicine, Beijing Institute of Genomics, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China. Electronic address: wangqf@big.ac.cn.

Culture-expanded human mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are increasingly used in
clinics, yet full characterization of the genomic compositions of these cells is 
lacking. We present a whole-genome investigation on the genetic dynamics of
cultured MSCs under ex vivo establishment (passage 1 [p1]) and serial expansion
(p8 and p13). We detected no significant changes in copy-number alterations
(CNAs) and low levels of single-nucleotide changes (SNCs) until p8. Strikingly, a
significant number (677) of SNCs were found in p13 MSCs. Using a sensitive
Droplet Digital PCR assay, we tested the nonsynonymous SNCs detected by
whole-genome sequencing and found that they were preexisting low-frequency
mutations in uncultured mononuclear cells (∼0.01%) and early-passage MSCs
(0.1%-1% at p1 and p8) but reached 17%-36% in p13. Our data demonstrate that
human MSCs maintain a stable genomic composition in the early stages of ex vivo
culture but are subject to clonal growth upon extended expansion.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.stemcr.2014.05.019 
PMCID: PMC4176531
PMID: 25254336  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Am J Physiol Cell Physiol. 2014 Dec 1;307(11):C1050-7. doi:
10.1152/ajpcell.00127.2014. Epub 2014 Sep 24.

Progesterone modulates SERCA2a expression and function in rabbit cardiomyocytes.

Moshal KS(1), Zhang Z(1), Roder K(1), Kim TY(1), Cooper L(1), Patedakis Litvinov 
B(1), Lu Y(1), Reddy V(1), Terentyev D(1), Choi BR(1), Koren G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Research Center, Division of Cardiology, Department of
Medicine, Rhode Island Hospital, Alpert Medical School of Brown University,
Providence, Rhode Island. (2)Cardiovascular Research Center, Division of
Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Rhode Island Hospital, Alpert Medical School 
of Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island gideon_koren@brown.edu.

We recently showed that progesterone treatment abolished arrhythmias and sudden
cardiac death in a transgenic rabbit model of long QT syndrome type 2 (LQT2).
Moreover, levels of cardiac sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase type 2a
(SERCA2a) were upregulated in LQT2 heart extracts. We hypothesized that
progesterone treatment upregulated SERCA2a expression, thereby reducing
Ca(2+)-dependent arrhythmias in LQT2 rabbits. We therefore investigated the
effect of progesterone on SERCA2a regulation in isolated cardiomyocytes.
Cardiomyocytes from neonatal (3- to 5-day-old) rabbits were isolated, cultured,
and treated with progesterone and other pharmacological agents. Immunoblotting
was performed on total cell lysates and sarcoplasmic reticulum-enriched membrane 
fractions for protein abundance, and mRNA transcripts were quantified using
real-time PCR. The effect of progesterone on baseline Ca(2+) transients and
Ca(2+) clearance was determined using digital imaging. Progesterone treatment
increased the total pool of SERCA2a protein by slowing its degradation. Using
various pharmacological inhibitors of degradation pathways, we showed that
progesterone-associated degradation of SERCA2a involves ubiquitination, and
progesterone significantly decreases the levels of ubiquitin-tagged SERCA2a
polypeptides. Our digital imaging data revealed that progesterone significantly
shortened the decay and duration of Ca(2+) transients. Progesterone treatment
increases protein levels and activity of SERCA2a. Progesterone stabilizes
SERCA2a, in part, by decreasing the ubiquitination level of SERCA2a polypeptides.

Copyright © 2014 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpcell.00127.2014 
PMCID: PMC4254949
PMID: 25252951  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Clin Cancer Res. 2015 Mar 1;21(5):1087-97. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-14-0983.
Epub 2014 Sep 23.

Clinical relevance of KRAS-mutated subclones detected with picodroplet digital
PCR in advanced colorectal cancer treated with anti-EGFR therapy.

Laurent-Puig P(1), Pekin D(2), Normand C(2), Kotsopoulos SK(3), Nizard P(2),
Perez-Toralla K(2), Rowell R(3), Olson J(3), Srinivasan P(3), Le Corre D(2), Hor 
T(2), El Harrak Z(2), Li X(3), Link DR(3), Bouché O(4), Emile JF(5), Landi B(6), 
Boige V(7), Hutchison JB(3), Taly V(8).

Author information: 
(1)Université Paris Sorbonne Cité; INSERM UMR-S1147; Centre Universitaire des
Saints-Pères, Paris, France. Departement of Biology, Hôpital Européen Georges
Pompidou, AP-HP, Paris, France. valerie.taly@parisdescartes.fr
pierre.laurent-puig@parisdescartes.fr. (2)Université Paris Sorbonne Cité; INSERM 
UMR-S1147; Centre Universitaire des Saints-Pères, Paris, France. (3)RainDance
Technologies, Billerica, Massachusetts. (4)Service d'hépatogastroentérologie et
de Cancérologie Digestive, CHU de Reims, Hôpital Robert-Debré, Reims, France.
(5)Department of Pathology, Hôpital Ambroise Paré, AP-HP, Université de
Versailles St Quentin en Yvelines, Boulogne-Billancourt, France. (6)Department of
Oncology, Hôpital Européen Georges Pompidou, AP-HP, Paris, France. (7)Intitut
Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France. (8)Université Paris Sorbonne Cité; INSERM
UMR-S1147; Centre Universitaire des Saints-Pères, Paris, France.
valerie.taly@parisdescartes.fr pierre.laurent-puig@parisdescartes.fr.

PURPOSE: KRAS mutations are predictive of nonresponse to anti-EGFR therapies in
metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC). However, only 50% of nonmutated patients
benefit from them. KRAS-mutated subclonal populations nondetectable by
conventional methods have been suggested as the cause of early progression.
Molecular analysis technology with high sensitivity and precision is required to 
test this hypothesis.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: From two cohorts of patients with mCRC, 136 KRAS, NRAS, and 
BRAF wild-type tumors with sufficient tumor material to perform highly sensitive 
picodroplet digital PCR (dPCR) and 41 KRAS-mutated tumors were selected. All
these patients were treated by anti-EGFR therapy. dPCR was used for KRAS or BRAF 
mutation screening and compared with qPCR. Progression-free survival (PFS) and
overall survival (OS) were analyzed according to the KRAS-mutated allele
fraction.
RESULTS: In addition to the confirmation of the 41 patients with KRAS-mutated
tumors, dPCR also identified KRAS mutations in 22 samples considered as KRAS
wild-type by qPCR. The fraction of KRAS-mutated allele quantified by dPCR was
inversely correlated with anti-EGFR therapy response rate (P < 0.001). In a Cox
model, the fraction of KRAS-mutated allele was associated with worse PFS and OS. 
Patients with less than 1% of mutant KRAS allele have similar PFS and OS than
those with wild-type KRAS tumors.
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that patients with mCRC with KRAS-mutated
subclones (at least those with a KRAS-mutated subclones fraction lower or equal
to 1%) had a benefit from anti-EGFR therapies.

©2014 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-14-0983 
PMID: 25248381  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2014 Dec;110:190-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2014.09.002.
Epub 2014 Sep 21.

Digital gene expression analysis of reproductive toxicity of benzo[a]pyrene in
male scallop chlamys farreri.

Deng X(1), Pan L(2), Miao J(1), Cai Y(1), Hu F(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Key Laboratory of Mariculture, Ministry of Education, Ocean University of 
China, Qingdao 266003, PR China. (2)The Key Laboratory of Mariculture, Ministry
of Education, Ocean University of China, Qingdao 266003, PR China. Electronic
address: panlq@ouc.edu.cn.

Benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) is a representative polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH)
and is studied widely for its strong toxicity and wide distribution. Although BaP
pollution in marine environment is increasing, molecular mechanisms underlying
reproductive toxicity of BaP in marine mollusks have been seldom systematically
studied, especially in males. In this study, genes that regulated reproductive
responses of Chlamys farreri under BaP stress were analyzed through digital gene 
expression (DGE) sequencing with testis tissues. A total of 12,485,055 and
14,454,127 clean reads were generated from control and BaP exposure DGE
libraries, respectively. After comparing two libraries, 1051 differentially
expressed genes were detected, with 223 up-regulated and 828 down-regulated
genes. Gene ontology (GO) annotation and kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes 
(KEGG) pathway analyses were performed on all genes to understand their
biological functions and processes. The results showed that numerous enriched,
differentially expressed genes related to aromatic compound catabolic processes, 
spermatid development, microtubule-based movement, energy production and immune
response. Quantitative real-time PCR was performed to verify the expressed genes 
of DGE. The study generated data to show the overall reproductive transcription
responses of male C. farreri under BaP stress, and it also can serve as the
reference for future study of organic pollutions in aquatic mollusks.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2014.09.002 
PMID: 25244687  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Biomed Res Int. 2014;2014:810209. doi: 10.1155/2014/810209. Epub 2014 Aug 27.

Quantitative analysis of pork and chicken products by droplet digital PCR.

Cai Y(1), Li X(1), Lv R(1), Yang J(1), Li J(1), He Y(1), Pan L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Technical Center for Animal, Plant and Food Inspection and Quarantine,
Shanghai Entry-Exit Inspection and Quarantine Bureau of China, No. 1208, Minsheng
Road, Pudong New Area, Shanghai 200135, China.

In this project, a highly precise quantitative method based on the digital
polymerase chain reaction (dPCR) technique was developed to determine the weight 
of pork and chicken in meat products. Real-time quantitative polymerase chain
reaction (qPCR) is currently used for quantitative molecular analysis of the
presence of species-specific DNAs in meat products. However, it is limited in
amplification efficiency and relies on standard curves based Ct values, detecting
and quantifying low copy number target DNA, as in some complex mixture meat
products. By using the dPCR method, we find the relationships between the raw
meat weight and DNA weight and between the DNA weight and DNA copy number were
both close to linear. This enabled us to establish formulae to calculate the raw 
meat weight based on the DNA copy number. The accuracy and applicability of this 
method were tested and verified using samples of pork and chicken powder mixed in
known proportions. Quantitative analysis indicated that dPCR is highly precise in
quantifying pork and chicken in meat products and therefore has the potential to 
be used in routine analysis by government regulators and quality control
departments of commercial food and feed enterprises.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/810209 
PMCID: PMC4163444
PMID: 25243184  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. J Biotechnol. 2014 Nov 10;189:48-57. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2014.08.032. Epub
2014 Sep 21.

Transcriptome characterization and differential expression analysis of
cold-responsive genes in young spikes of common wheat.

Zhang S(1), Song G(1), Gao J(1), Li Y(1), Guo D(1), Fan Q(1), Sui X(1), Chu X(1),
Huang C(1), Liu J(1), Li G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Crop Research Institute, Shandong Academy of Agricultural Sciences, China; Key
Laboratory of Wheat Biology & Genetic Improvement On North Yellow & Huai River
Valley, Ministry of Agriculture, China; National Engineering Laboratory For Wheat
& Maize, Jinan 250100, Shandong, China. (2)Crop Research Institute, Shandong
Academy of Agricultural Sciences, China; Key Laboratory of Wheat Biology &
Genetic Improvement On North Yellow & Huai River Valley, Ministry of Agriculture,
China; National Engineering Laboratory For Wheat & Maize, Jinan 250100, Shandong,
China. Electronic address: lgy111@126.com.

With the frequent occurrence of climatic anomalies, spring frost has become a
significant limiting factor on wheat production, especially during the
reproductive growth stage. A high-throughput sequencing technology was applied
and a total of 54 million clean reads that corresponded to 7.44 Gb of total
nucleotides were generated. These reads were then de novo assembled into 120,715 
unigenes with an average length of 627 bp. Functional annotations were then
obtained by aligning all unigenes with public protein databases. In total, 9657
potential EST-SSRs were identified, and 6310 primer pairs for 1329 SSRs were
obtained. Meanwhile, a comparison of four tag-based digital gene expression
libraries, which was built from the control and cold-treated young spikes were
performed. Overall, 526 up-regulated and 489 down-regulated genes were
identified, and GO and KEGG pathway analyses of those genes were further
conducted. Based on these results, a series of candidate genes involved in cold
response pathways were identified, and 12 of them were confirmed by qRT-PCR. The 
combination of RNA-Seq and digital gene expression analysis in this study
provides a powerful approach for investigating the transcriptional changes and
obtained a large number of unigenes annotated to public databases.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2014.08.032 
PMID: 25240441  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. PLoS One. 2014 Sep 18;9(9):e107987. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0107987.
eCollection 2014.

Genome-wide identification and expression analysis of NBS-encoding genes in Malus
x domestica and expansion of NBS genes family in Rosaceae.

Arya P(1), Kumar G(1), Acharya V(1), Singh AK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Academy of Scientific & Innovative Research (AcSIR), New Dehli, India;
Division of Biotechnology, CSIR-Institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology,
Palampur, Himachal Pradesh, India.

Nucleotide binding site leucine-rich repeats (NBS-LRR) disease resistance
proteins play an important role in plant defense against pathogen attack. A
number of recent studies have been carried out to identify and characterize
NBS-LRR gene families in many important plant species. In this study, we
identified NBS-LRR gene family comprising of 1015 NBS-LRRs using highly stringent
computational methods. These NBS-LRRs were characterized on the basis of
conserved protein motifs, gene duplication events, chromosomal locations,
phylogenetic relationships and digital gene expression analysis. Surprisingly,
equal distribution of Toll/interleukin-1 receptor (TIR) and coiled coil (CC) (1 ∶
1) was detected in apple while the unequal distribution was reported in majority 
of all other known plant genome studies. Prediction of gene duplication events
intriguingly revealed that not only tandem duplication but also segmental
duplication may equally be responsible for the expansion of the apple NBS-LRR
gene family. Gene expression profiling using expressed sequence tags database of 
apple and quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) revealed the expression of these
genes in wide range of tissues and disease conditions, respectively. Taken
together, this study will provide a blueprint for future efforts towards
improvement of disease resistance in apple.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0107987 
PMCID: PMC4169499
PMID: 25232838  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Plant Cell Physiol. 2014 Oct;55(10):1793-801. doi: 10.1093/pcp/pcu111. Epub 2014 
Sep 16.

Mining tissue-specific contigs from peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.) for promoter
cloning by deep transcriptome sequencing.

Geng L(1), Duan X(1), Liang C(2), Shu C(1), Song F(1), Zhang J(3).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory for Biology of Plant Diseases and Insect Pests, Institute
of Plant Protection, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing 100193,
China. (2)Department of Biology, Miami University, Oxford, OH 45056, USA
Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering, Miami University,
Oxford, OH 45056, USA. (3)State Key Laboratory for Biology of Plant Diseases and 
Insect Pests, Institute of Plant Protection, Chinese Academy of Agricultural
Sciences, Beijing 100193, China jzhang@ippcaas.cn.

Peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.), one of the most important oil legumes in the world,
is heavily damaged by white grubs. Tissue-specific promoters are needed to
incorporate insect resistance genes into peanut by genetic transformation to
control the subterranean pests. Transcriptome sequencing is the most effective
way to analyze differential gene expression in this non-model species and
contribute to promoter cloning. The transcriptomes of the roots, seeds and leaves
of peanut were sequenced using Illumina technology. A simple digital expression
profile was established based on number of transcripts per million clean tags
(TPM) from different tissues. Subsequently, 584 root-specific candidate
transcript assembly contigs (TACs) and 316 seed-specific candidate TACs were
identified. Among these candidate TACs, 55.3% were root-specific and 64.6% were
seed-specific by semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis. Moreover, the consistency of 
semi-quantitative RT-PCR with the simple digital expression profile was
correlated with the length and TPM value of TACs. The results of gene ontology
showed that some root-specific TACs are involved in stress resistance and respond
to auxin stimulus, whereas, seed-specific candidate TACs are involved in embryo
development, lipid storage and long-chain fatty acid biosynthesis. One
root-specific promoter was cloned and characterized. We developed a high-yield
screening system in peanut by establishing a simple digital expression profile
based on Illumina sequencing. The feasible and rapid method presented by this
study can be used for other non-model crops to explore tissue-specific or
spatially specific promoters.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Japanese
Society of Plant Physiologists. All rights reserved. For permissions, please
email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/pcp/pcu111 
PMID: 25231965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Int J Parasitol. 2014 Dec;44(14):1105-13. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpara.2014.08.004. Epub
2014 Sep 16.

Comparison of next-generation droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) with quantitative PCR
(qPCR) for enumeration of Cryptosporidium oocysts in faecal samples.

Yang R(1), Paparini A(1), Monis P(2), Ryan U(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Veterinary and Life Sciences, Vector- and Water-Borne Pathogen
Research Group, Murdoch University, Murdoch, Western Australia 6150, Australia.
(2)Australian Water Quality Centre, South Australian Water Corporation, 250
Victoria Square, Adelaide, SA 5000, Australia. (3)School of Veterinary and Life
Sciences, Vector- and Water-Borne Pathogen Research Group, Murdoch University,
Murdoch, Western Australia 6150, Australia. Electronic address:
Una.Ryan@murdoch.edu.au.

Clinical microbiology laboratories rely on quantitative PCR for its speed,
sensitivity, specificity and ease-of-use. However, quantitative PCR quantitation 
requires the use of a standard curve or normalisation to reference genes. Droplet
digital PCR provides absolute quantitation without the need for calibration
curves. A comparison between droplet digital PCR and quantitative PCR-based
analyses was conducted for the enteric parasite Cryptosporidium, which is an
important cause of gastritis in both humans and animals. Two loci were analysed
(18S rRNA and actin) using a range of Cryptosporidium DNA templates, including
recombinant plasmids, purified haemocytometer-counted oocysts, commercial flow
cytometry-counted oocysts and faecal DNA samples from sheep, cattle and humans.
Each method was evaluated for linearity, precision, limit of detection and cost. 
Across the same range of detection, both methods showed a high degree of
linearity and positive correlation for standards (R(2)⩾0.999) and faecal samples 
(R(2)⩾0.9750). The precision of droplet digital PCR, as measured by mean Relative
Standard Deviation (RSD;%), was consistently better compared with quantitative
PCR, particularly for the 18S rRNA locus, but was poorer as DNA concentration
decreased. The quantitative detection of quantitative PCR was unaffected by DNA
concentration, but droplet digital PCR quantitative PCR was less affected by the 
presence of inhibitors, compared with quantitative PCR. For most templates
analysed including Cryptosporidium-positive faecal DNA, the template copy
numbers, as determined by droplet digital PCR, were consistently lower than by
quantitative PCR. However, the quantitations obtained by quantitative PCR are
dependent on the accuracy of the standard curve and when the quantitative PCR
data were corrected for pipetting and DNA losses (as determined by droplet
digital PCR), then the sensitivity of both methods was comparable. A cost
analysis based on 96 samples revealed that the overall cost (consumables and
labour) of droplet digital PCR was two times higher than quantitative PCR. Using 
droplet digital PCR to precisely quantify standard dilutions used for
high-throughput and cost-effective amplifications by quantitative PCR would be
one way to combine the advantages of the two technologies.

Copyright © 2014 Australian Society for Parasitology Inc. Published by Elsevier
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpara.2014.08.004 
PMID: 25229177  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2015 May 1;215:76-87. doi: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2014.08.018. Epub
2014 Sep 9.

Discovery of a novel insulin-like peptide and insulin binding proteins in the
Eastern rock lobster Sagmariasus verreauxi.

Chandler JC(1), Aizen J(1), Elizur A(1), Hollander-Cohen L(2), Battaglene SC(3), 
Ventura T(4).

Author information: 
(1)GeneCology Research Centre, Faculty of Science, Health, Education and
Engineering, University of the Sunshine Coast, 4 Locked Bag, Maroochydore,
Queensland 4558, Australia. (2)The Robert H. Smith Faculty of Agriculture, Food
and Environment, Department of Animal Sciences, The Hebrew University of
Jerusalem, Rehovot 76100, Israel. (3)Institute for Marine and Antarctic Studies, 
University of Tasmania, Private Bag 49, Hobart, Tasmania 7001, Australia.
(4)GeneCology Research Centre, Faculty of Science, Health, Education and
Engineering, University of the Sunshine Coast, 4 Locked Bag, Maroochydore,
Queensland 4558, Australia. Electronic address: tventura@usc.edu.au.

This study reports, for the first time in any of the commercially important
decapod species, the identification of an insulin-like peptide (ILP), distinct
from the androgenic gland hormone. Bioinformatics analysis of the de novo
assembled spiny lobster, (Sagmariasus verreauxi) transcriptome, allowed
identification of Sv-ILP1 as well as eight binding proteins. Binding proteins
were termed as Sv-IGFBP, due to homology with the vertebrate insulin-like
growth-factor binding protein and Sv-SIBD1-7, single insulin-binding domain
protein (SIBD), similar to those identified in other invertebrate species.
Sv-ILP1 was found to be expressed in the eyestalk, gonads and antennal gland of
both sexes and to a lesser extent in male muscle, androgenic gland and
hepatopancreas. The expression profiles of each binding protein were found to
vary across tissues, with Sv-SIBD5, 6 and 7 showing higher expression in the
gonad, demonstrated by PCR and digital gene expression. Further spatial
investigations, using in-situ hybridisation, found Sv-ILP1 to be expressed in the
neurosecretory cells of the thoracic ganglia, in keeping with the tissue
expression of Drosophila ILP7 (DILP7). This correlative tissue expression,
considered with the phylogenetic clustering of Sv-ILP1 and DILP7, suggests
Sv-ILP1 to be a DILP7 orthologue. The broad expression of Sv-ILP1 strongly
suggests that ILPs have a role beyond that of masculinisation in decapods. The
function of these novel peptides may have application in enhancing aquaculture
practices in the commercially important decapod species.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2014.08.018 
PMID: 25218129  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. World J Emerg Med. 2014;5(2):144-7. doi: 10.5847/wjem.j.1920-8642.2014.02.012.

Expression of tissue factor in rabbit pulmonary artery in an acute pulmonary
embolism model.

Zhang JX(1), Chen YL(1), Zhou YL(1), Guo QY(1), Wang XP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, Tianjin Chest Hospital, Tianjin 300051, China.

BACKGROUND: Tissue factor (TF) is the initiation factor of the extrinsic
coagulation pathway, and plays a critical role in the process of thrombosis. This
study aimed to investigate the expression of TF and to explore their clinical
effect on the pulmonary artery after acute pulmonary thromboembolism.
METHODS: Thirty-four Japanese white rabbits (Level II animals) supplied by
Tianjin Medical University were randomly assigned into: group A, specimens of the
pulmonary artery taken 3 hours after pulmonary embolism (n=8); group B, specimens
of the pulmonary artery taken 8 hours after pulmonary embolism (n=8); group C,
specimens of the pulmonary artery taken 24 hours after pulmonary embolism (n=8); 
and control group, pseudo-operations performed without injection of autologous
blood clots (n=10). The animal model of pulmonary thrombo-embolism was
established by injection of autologous blood clots into the jugular vein through 
a 5F catheter, and was confirmed by digital subtraction angiography. The mRNA
expression of TF in different parts of the pulmonary artery was accessed by
RT-PCR. The q test was used if there was a significant difference in a given
continuous variable among the three groups assessed by ANOVA. The experiment
equipment was supplied by the State Key Laboratory of Experimental Hematology,
Institute of Hematology and Blood Diseases Hospital, the Chinese Academy of
Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College.
RESULTS: The TF expression in the specimen adjacent to emboli was stable at 3, 8 
or 24 hours after embolism. The mRNA expression of TF at 3 and 8 hours after
embolism was lower in the specimens taken from the distal end of the morbid
pulmonary artery than those adjacent to emboli. While at 24 hours after embolism,
there were similar mRNA levels in specimens either adjacent or distal to emboli.
CONCLUSION: The high level of TF expression in pulmonary artery tissue adjacent
to emboli could lead to locally increased coagulation activity, indicating the
necessity of initiating anti- coagulation treatment as soon as possible after
acute pulmonary embolism.

DOI: 10.5847/wjem.j.1920-8642.2014.02.012 
PMCID: PMC4129874
PMID: 25215165 


894. Pathol Biol (Paris). 2015 Feb;63(1):53-9. doi: 10.1016/j.patbio.2014.07.007. Epub
2014 Sep 8.

Quantification of viral DNA during HIV-1 infection: A review of relevant clinical
uses and laboratory methods.

Alidjinou EK(1), Bocket L(1), Hober D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de virologie EA3610, faculté de médecine, institut Hippocrate,
université Lille 2, CHRU Lille, 152, rue du Dr-Yersin, 59120 Loos-lez-Lille,
France. (2)Laboratoire de virologie EA3610, faculté de médecine, institut
Hippocrate, université Lille 2, CHRU Lille, 152, rue du Dr-Yersin, 59120
Loos-lez-Lille, France. Electronic address: didier.hober@chru-lille.fr.

Effective antiretroviral therapy usually leads to undetectable HIV-1 RNA in the
plasma. However, the virus persists in some cells of infected patients as various
DNA forms, both integrated and unintegrated. This reservoir represents the
greatest challenge to the complete cure of HIV-1 infection and its
characteristics highly impact the course of the disease. The quantification of
HIV-1 DNA in blood samples constitutes currently the most practical approach to
measure this residual infection. Real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR) is the most
common method used for HIV-DNA quantification and many strategies have been
developed to measure the different forms of HIV-1 DNA. In the literature, several
"in-house" PCR methods have been used and there is a need for standardization to 
have comparable results. In addition, qPCR is limited for the precise
quantification of low levels by background noise. Among new assays in
development, digital PCR was shown to allow an accurate quantification of HIV-1
DNA. Total HIV-1 DNA is most commonly measured in clinical routine. The absolute 
quantification of proviruses and unintegrated forms is more often used for
research purposes.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.patbio.2014.07.007 
PMID: 25201144  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. PLoS One. 2014 Sep 8;9(9):e107050. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0107050. eCollection
2014.

Identification of genes related to beak deformity of chickens using digital gene 
expression profiling.

Bai H(1), Zhu J(1), Sun Y(1), Liu R(1), Liu N(1), Li D(1), Wen J(1), Chen J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Genetics Resources and Utilization of Livestock, Institute
of Animal Science, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing, China.

Frequencies of up to 3% of beak deformity (normally a crossed beak) occur in some
indigenous chickens in China, such as and Beijing-You. Chickens with deformed
beaks have reduced feed intake, growth rate, and abnormal behaviors. Beak
deformity represents an economic as well as an animal welfare problem in the
poultry industry. Because the genetic basis of beak deformity remains
incompletely understood, the present study sought to identify important genes and
metabolic pathways involved in this phenotype. Digital gene expression analysis
was performed on deformed and normal beaks collected from Beijing-You chickens to
detect global gene expression differences. A total of >11 million cDNA tags were 
sequenced, and 5,864,499 and 5,648,877 clean tags were obtained in the libraries 
of deformed and normal beaks, respectively. In total, 1,156 differentially
expressed genes (DEG) were identified in the deformed beak with 409 being
up-regulated and 747 down-regulated in the deformed beaks. qRT-PCR using eight
genes was performed to verify the results of DGE profiling. Gene ontology (GO)
analysis highlighted that genes of the keratin family on GGA25 were abundant
among the DEGs. Pathway analysis showed that many DEGs were linked to the
biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids and glycerolipid metabolism. Combining
the analyses, 11 genes (MUC, LOC426217, BMP4, ACAA1, LPL, ALDH7A1, GLA, RETSAT,
SDR16C5, WWOX, and MOGAT1) were highlighted as potential candidate genes for beak
deformity in chickens. Some of these genes have been identified previously, while
others have unknown function with respect to thus phenotype. To the best of our
knowledge, this is the first genome-wide study to investigate the transcriptome
differences in the deformed and normal beaks of chickens. The DEGs identified
here are worthy of further functional characterization.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0107050 
PMCID: PMC4157856
PMID: 25198128  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Gene. 2014 Nov 10;551(2):261-70. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2014.09.003. Epub 2014 Sep
4.

Deep sequencing-based transcriptome profiling analysis of Chlamys farreri exposed
to benzo[a]pyrene.

Cai Y(1), Pan L(2), Hu F(1), Jin Q(1), Liu T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Mariculture, Ministry of Education, Ocean University of
China, Qingdao 266003, PR China. (2)Key Laboratory of Mariculture, Ministry of
Education, Ocean University of China, Qingdao 266003, PR China. Electronic
address: panlq@ouc.edu.cn.

Whole-genome transcriptome measurements are pivotal for characterizing molecular 
mechanisms of chemicals and predicting toxic classes, such as genotoxicity and
carcinogenicity, from in vitro and in vivo assays. We analyzed the dynamic
defense transcriptome responsive to Chlamys farreri upon exposure to
benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) using a digital gene expression (DGE) approach. Following
exposure, 251 and 177 genes were up-regulated, and 142 and 300 genes were
down-regulated at 3 days post-exposure and 10 days post-exposure, respectively.
The differentially expressed genes were related to toxicological response,
oxidative stress and the metabolism of proteins and fats. Of these genes, most
genes up-regulated at the early stage of exposure tended to be constantly
down-regulated at the later stage whereas the landscape of the up- or
down-regulated genes differed significantly at the two time points investigated. 
Functional enrichment analyses show that RNA-seq yields more insight into the
biological mechanisms related to the toxic effects caused by BaP, i.e., two to
fivefold more affected pathways and biological processes. Besides, we observed a 
change in the expression of ten genes which are important and
differentially-expressed detoxification-related genes, and this was subsequently 
confirmed via quantitative real-time PCR. Our results provide evidence that
RNA-seq is a powerful tool for toxicology and is capable of generating novel and 
valuable information at the transcriptome level for characterizing deleterious
effects caused by BaP.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2014.09.003 
PMID: 25194896  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Biomol Detect Quantif. 2014 Sep 6;1(1):23-33. eCollection 2014.

A survey of tools for the analysis of quantitative PCR (qPCR) data.

Pabinger S(1), Rödiger S(2), Kriegner A(1), Vierlinger K(1), Weinhäusel A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Health & Environment Department, Molecular Diagnostics, AIT - Austrian
Institute of Technology, Muthgasse 11, 1190 Vienna, Austria. (2)Faculty of
Natural Sciences, InnoProfile Group "Image-based Assays", Brandenburg University 
of Technology Cottbus - Senftenberg, Großenhainer Straße 57, 01968 Senftenberg,
Germany.

Real-time quantitative polymerase-chain-reaction (qPCR) is a standard technique
in most laboratories used for various applications in basic research. Analysis of
qPCR data is a crucial part of the entire experiment, which has led to the
development of a plethora of methods. The released tools either cover specific
parts of the workflow or provide complete analysis solutions. Here, we surveyed
27 open-access software packages and tools for the analysis of qPCR data. The
survey includes 8 Microsoft Windows, 5 web-based, 9 R-based and 5 tools from
other platforms. Reviewed packages and tools support the analysis of different
qPCR applications, such as RNA quantification, DNA methylation, genotyping,
identification of copy number variations, and digital PCR. We report an overview 
of the functionality, features and specific requirements of the individual
software tools, such as data exchange formats, availability of a graphical user
interface, included procedures for graphical data presentation, and offered
statistical methods. In addition, we provide an overview about quantification
strategies, and report various applications of qPCR. Our comprehensive survey
showed that most tools use their own file format and only a fraction of the
currently existing tools support the standardized data exchange format RDML. To
allow a more streamlined and comparable analysis of qPCR data, more vendors and
tools need to adapt the standardized format to encourage the exchange of data
between instrument software, analysis tools, and researchers.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bdq.2014.08.002 
PMCID: PMC5129434
PMID: 27920994 


898. Rice (N Y). 2014 Sep 3;7(1):20. doi: 10.1186/s12284-014-0020-7. eCollection 2014.

Differentially-expressed genes in rice infected by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae 
relative to a flagellin-deficient mutant reveal potential functions of flagellin 
in host-pathogen interactions.

Yu C(1), Chen H(1), Tian F(1), Leach JE(2), He C(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory for Biology of Plant Diseases and Insect Pests, Institute
of Plant Protection, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing 100193,
China. (2)Department of Bioagricultural Sciences and Pest Management, Colorado
State University, Ft. Collins 80523-1177, CO, USA.

BACKGROUND: Plants have evolved a sensitive defense response system that detects 
and recognizes various pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) (e.g.
flagellin) and induces immune responses to protect against invasion.
Transcriptional responses in rice to PAMPs produced by Xanthomonas oryzae pv.
oryzae (Xoo), the bacterial blight pathogen, have not yet been defined.
RESULTS: We characterized transcriptomic responses in rice inoculated with the
wildtype (WT) Xoo and flagellin-deficient mutant ∆fliC through RNA-seq analysis. 
Digital gene expression (DGE) analysis based on Solexa/Illumina sequencing was
used to investigate transcriptomic responses in 30 day-old seedlings of rice
(Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare). 1,680 genes were differentially-expressed
(DEGs) in rice inoculated with WT relative to ∆fliC; among which 1,159 genes were
up-regulated and 521 were down-regulated. Expression patterns of 12
randomly-selected DEGs assayed by quantitative real time PCR (qRT-PCR) were
similar to those detected by DGE analyses, confirming reliability of the DGE
data. Functional annotations revealed the up-regulated DEGs are involved in the
cell wall, lipid and secondary metabolism, defense response and hormone
signaling, whereas the down-regulated ones are associated with photosynthesis.
Moreover, 57 and 21 specifically expressed genes were found after WT and ∆fliC
treatments, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: DEGs were identified in rice inoculated with WT Xoo relative to
∆fliC. These genes were predicted to function in multiple biological processes,
including the defense response and photosynthesis in rice. This study provided
additional insights into molecular basis of rice response to bacterial infection 
and revealed potential functions of bacterial flagellin in the rice-Xoo
interactions.

DOI: 10.1186/s12284-014-0020-7 
PMCID: PMC4152760
PMID: 25187853 


899. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2014 Oct;406(26):6485-97. doi: 10.1007/s00216-014-8077-0. Epub
2014 Aug 16.

GMO quantification: valuable experience and insights for the future.

Milavec M(1), Dobnik D, Yang L, Zhang D, Gruden K, Zel J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Systems Biology, National Institute of Biology
(NIB), Večna pot 111, 1000, Ljubljana, Slovenia, mojca.milavec@nib.si.

Cultivation and marketing of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) have been
unevenly adopted worldwide. To facilitate international trade and to provide
information to consumers, labelling requirements have been set up in many
countries. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) is currently
the method of choice for detection, identification and quantification of GMOs.
This has been critically assessed and the requirements for the method performance
have been set. Nevertheless, there are challenges that should still be
highlighted, such as measuring the quantity and quality of DNA, and determining
the qPCR efficiency, possible sequence mismatches, characteristics of
taxon-specific genes and appropriate units of measurement, as these remain
potential sources of measurement uncertainty. To overcome these problems and to
cope with the continuous increase in the number and variety of GMOs, new
approaches are needed. Statistical strategies of quantification have already been
proposed and expanded with the development of digital PCR. The first attempts
have been made to use new generation sequencing also for quantitative purposes,
although accurate quantification of the contents of GMOs using this technology is
still a challenge for the future, and especially for mixed samples. New
approaches are needed also for the quantification of stacks, and for potential
quantification of organisms produced by new plant breeding techniques.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-014-8077-0 
PMID: 25182968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Lab Chip. 2014 Oct 21;14(20):4067-75. doi: 10.1039/c4lc00630e.

OncomiR detection in circulating body fluids: a PDMS microdevice perspective.

Potrich C(1), Vaghi V, Lunelli L, Pasquardini L, Santini GC, Ottone C, Quaglio M,
Cocuzza M, Pirri CF, Ferracin M, Negrini M, Tiberio P, De Sanctis V, Bertorelli
R, Pederzolli C.

Author information: 
(1)Fondazione Bruno Kessler-LaBSSAH, Via Sommarive 18, Trento, Italy.
cpotrich@fbk.eu.

There is an increasing interest in circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) as potential
minimally invasive diagnostic biomarkers in oncology. Considerable efforts are
being made in the development of lab-on-a-chip devices for biomedical
applications to purify and detect miRNAs from biological fluids. Here, we report 
the development of an innovative polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS)-based parallel
device whose internal surface can opportunely be functionalized with positively
charged 3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane (APTES) alone or mixed with two different
neutral poly(ethylene glycol) silanes (PEG-s). The differently functionalized
internal surfaces of the PDMS chip were characterized with s-SDTB
(sulfosuccinimidyl-4-o-(4,4-dimethoxytrityl) butyrate) and the portion of the
surface able to adsorb a synthetic fluorescently labeled miRNA was determined.
Interestingly, the adsorbed miRNA (both synthetic and cell supernatant-derived)
was found mainly on the bottom surface of the chip and could be reverse
transcribed into cDNA directly on the same PDMS chip used for its purification,
saving hours with respect to the use of standard purification kits. We identified
0.1% APTES/0.9% PEG-silane as the most efficient PDMS functionalization to
capture both synthetic and extracellular miRNA. Moreover, the amount of captured 
miRNA was increased by treating the cell supernatant with a commercially
available lysis buffer for RNA extraction. We assessed that the available miRNA
binding sites on the functionalized surface were efficiently saturated with only 
one incubation, shortening the time and greatly simplifying the protocol for
miRNA purification from biological samples. Finally, the extracellular miRNA
purification efficiency of the PDMS functionalized multichip determined via
real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) was confirmed by
droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) quantification. This work shows an innovative, rapid 
and easy to use microdevice for the purification and reverse transcription of
circulating miRNAs, approaching the realization of diagnostic and prognostic
oncomiR-based assays.

DOI: 10.1039/c4lc00630e 
PMID: 25178053  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


901. BMC Genomics. 2014 Aug 31;15:747. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-15-747.

Deep sequencing-based comparative transcriptional profiles of Cymbidium hybridum 
roots in response to mycorrhizal and non-mycorrhizal beneficial fungi.

Zhao X, Zhang J, Chen C, Yang J, Zhu H, Liu M, Lv F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Guangdong Key Laboratory of Ornamental Plant Germplasm Innovation and
Utilization, Environmental Horticulture Research Institute, Guangdong Academy of 
Agricultural Sciences, East 1st Street 1, Jinying Road, Tianhe District,
Guangzhou 510640, People's Republic of China. lvfubing2014@sina.com.

BACKGROUND: The Orchidaceae is one of the largest families in the plant kingdom
and orchid mycorrhizae (OM) are indispensable in the life cycle of all orchids
under natural conditions. In spite of this, little is known concerning the
mechanisms underlying orchid- mycorrhizal fungi interactions. Our previous work
demonstrated that the non-mycorrhizal fungus Umbelopsis nana ZH3A-3 could improve
the symbiotic effects of orchid mycorrhizal fungus Epulorhiza repens ML01 by
co-cultivation with Cymbidium hybridum plantlets. Thus, we investigated the C.
hybridum transcript profile associated with different beneficial fungi.
RESULTS: More than 54,993,972 clean reads were obtained from un-normalized cDNA
library prepared from fungal- and mock- treated Cymbidium roots at four time
points using RNA-seq technology. These reads were assembled into 16,798 unique
transcripts, with a mean length of 1127 bp. A total of 10,971 (65.31%) sequences 
were annotated based on BLASTX results and over ninety percent of which were
assigned to plant origin. The digital gene expression profiles in Cymbidium root 
at 15 days post inoculation revealed that 1674, 845 and 1743 genes were
sigificantly regulated in response to ML01, ZH3A-3 and ML01+ ZH3A-3 treatments,
respectively. Twenty-six genes in different regulation patterns were validated
using quantitative RT-PCR. Our analysis showed that general defense responses
were co- induced by three treatments, including cell wall modification, reactive 
oxygen species detoxification, secondary biosynthesis and hormone balance. Genes 
involved in phosphate transport and root morphogenesis were also detected to be
up-regulated collectively. Among the OM specifically induced transcripts, genes
related to signaling, protein metabolism and processing, defense, transport and
auxin response were identifed. Aside from these orchid transcripts, some putative
fungal genes were also identified in symbiotic roots related to plant cell wall
degradation, remodeling the fungal cell wall and nutrient transport.
CONCLUSION: The orchid root transcriptome will facilitate our understanding of
orchid-associated biological mechanism. The comparative expression profiling
revealed that the transcriptional reprogramming by OM symbiosis generally
overlapped that of arbuscular mycorrhizas and ectomycorrhizas. The molecular
basis of OM formation and function will improve our knowledge of
plant-mycorrhzial fungi interactions, and their effects on plant and fungal
growth, development and differentiation.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-15-747 
PMCID: PMC4162972
PMID: 25174959  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. BMC Genomics. 2014 Aug 30;15:746. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-15-746.

De novo leaf and root transcriptome analysis identified novel genes involved in
steroidal sapogenin biosynthesis in Asparagus racemosus.

Upadhyay S, Phukan UJ, Mishra S, Shukla RK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biotechnology Division, Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants,
P,O, CIMAP, Near Kukrail Picnic Spot, Lucknow, U,P, India.
rk.shukla@cimap.res.in.

BACKGROUND: Saponins are mainly amphipathic glycosides that posses many
biological activities and confer potential health benefits to humans. Inspite of 
its medicinal attributes most of the triterpenes and enzymes involved in the
saponin biosynthesis remains uncharacterized at the molecular level. Since the
major steroidal components are present in the roots of A. racemosus our study is 
focussed on the comparative denovo transcriptome analysis of root versus leaf
tissue and identifying some root specific transcripts involved in saponin
biosynthesis using high-throughput next generation transcriptome sequencing.
RESULTS: After sequencing, de novo assembly and quantitative assessment, 126861
unigenes were finally generated with an average length of 1200 bp. Then
functional annotation and GO enrichment analysis was performed by aligning
all-unigenes with public protein databases including NR, SwissProt, and KEGG.
Differentially expressed genes in root were initially identified using the RPKM
method using digital subtraction between root and leaf. Twenty seven putative
secondary metabolite related transcripts were experimentally validated for their 
expression in root or leaf tissue using q-RT PCR analysis. Most of the above
selected transcripts showed preferential expression in root as compared to leaf
supporting the digitally subtracted result obtained. The methyl jasmonate
application induces the secondary metabolite related gene transcripts leading to 
their increased accumulation in plants. Therefore, the identified transcripts
related to saponin biosynthesis were further analyzed for their induced
expression after 3, 5 and 12 hours of exogenous application of Methyl Jasmonate
in tissue specific manner.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, we have identified a large set of cDNA unigenes from 
A. racemosus leaf and root tissue. This is the first transcriptome sequencing of 
this non-model species using Illumina, a next generation sequencing technology.
The present study has also identified number of root specific transcripts showing
homology with saponin biosynthetic pathway. An integrated pathway of identified
saponin biosynthesis transcripts their tissue specific expression and induced
accumulation after methyl jasmonate treatment was discussed.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-15-746 
PMCID: PMC4162912
PMID: 25174837  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2014 Oct;406(26):6513-28. doi: 10.1007/s00216-014-8084-1. Epub
2014 Aug 31.

Optimising droplet digital PCR analysis approaches for detection and
quantification of bacteria: a case study of fire blight and potato brown rot.

Dreo T(1), Pirc M, Ramšak Ž, Pavšič J, Milavec M, Zel J, Gruden K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Systems Biology, National Institute of
Biology, Vecna pot 111, 1000, Ljubljana, Slovenia, tanja.dreo@nib.si.

Here we report on the first assessment of droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) for
detection and absolute quantification of two quarantine plant pathogenic bacteria
that infect many species of the Rosaceae and Solanaceae families: Erwinia
amylovora and Ralstonia solanacearum. An open-source R script was written for the
ddPCR data analysis. Analysis of a set of samples with known health status aided 
the assessment and selection of different threshold settings (QuantaSoft
analysis, definetherain pipeline and manual threshold), which led to optimal
diagnostic specificity. The interpretation of the E. amylovora ddPCR was
straightforward, and the analysis approach had little influence on the final
results and the concentrations determined. The sensitivity and linear range were 
similar to those for real-time PCR (qPCR), for the analysis of both bacterial
suspensions and plant material, making ddPCR a viable choice when both detection 
and quantification are desired. With the R. solanacearum ddPCR, the use of a high
global threshold was necessary to exclude false-positive reactions that are
sometimes observed in healthy plant material. ddPCR significantly improved the
analytical sensitivity over that of qPCR, and improved the detection of low
concentrations of R. solanacearum in potato tuber samples. Accurate and rapid
absolute quantification of both of these bacteria in pure culture was achieved by
direct ddPCR. Our data confirm the suitability of these ddPCR assays for routine 
detection and quantification of plant pathogens and for preparation of defined
in-house reference materials with known target concentrations.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-014-8084-1 
PMID: 25173868  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Mol Ecol. 2014 Oct;23(20):5061-71. doi: 10.1111/mec.12904. Epub 2014 Oct 4.

The genetics of a putative social trait in natural populations of yeast.

Bozdag GO(1), Greig D.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology, August Thienemann Strasse 2,
Plön, 24306, Germany.

The sharing of secreted invertase by yeast cells is a well-established laboratory
model for cooperation, but the only evidence that such cooperation occurs in
nature is that the SUC loci, which encode invertase, vary in number and
functionality. Genotypes that do not produce invertase can act as 'cheats' in
laboratory experiments, growing on the glucose that is released when invertase
producers, or 'cooperators', digest sucrose. However, genetic variation for
invertase production might instead be explained by adaptation of different
populations to different local availabilities of sucrose, the substrate for
invertase. Here we find that 110 wild yeast strains isolated from natural
habitats, and all contained a single SUC locus and produced invertase; none were 
'cheats'. The only genetic variants we found were three strains isolated instead 
from sucrose-rich nectar, which produced higher levels of invertase from three
additional SUC loci at their subtelomeres. We argue that the pattern of SUC gene 
variation is better explained by local adaptation than by social conflict.

© 2014 The Authors. Molecular Ecology Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/mec.12904 
PMCID: PMC4285311
PMID: 25169714  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Front Oncol. 2014 Aug 8;4:212. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2014.00212. eCollection 2014.

Monitoring residual disease in the ph-negative myeloproliferative neoplasms
post-allogeneic stem cell transplantation: more mutations and more methodologies.

Langabeer SE(1), Haslam K(1), Conneally E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Molecular Diagnostics, St. James's Hospital , Dublin , Ireland.
(2)Department of Haematology, St. James's Hospital , Dublin , Ireland.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2014.00212 
PMCID: PMC4126362
PMID: 25152868 


906. BMC Bioinformatics. 2014 Aug 22;15:283. doi: 10.1186/1471-2105-15-283.

Impact of variance components on reliability of absolute quantification using
digital PCR.

Jacobs BK(1), Goetghebeur E, Clement L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Mathematics, Computer Science and Statistics, Ghent
University, Krijgslaan 281, S9, 9000 Ghent, Belgium. BartKM.Jacobs@UGent.be.

BACKGROUND: Digital polymerase chain reaction (dPCR) is an increasingly popular
technology for detecting and quantifying target nucleic acids. Its advertised
strength is high precision absolute quantification without needing reference
curves. The standard data analytic approach follows a seemingly straightforward
theoretical framework but ignores sources of variation in the data generating
process. These stem from both technical and biological factors, where we
distinguish features that are 1) hard-wired in the equipment, 2) user-dependent
and 3) provided by manufacturers but may be adapted by the user. The impact of
the corresponding variance components on the accuracy and precision of target
concentration estimators presented in the literature is studied through
simulation.
RESULTS: We reveal how system-specific technical factors influence accuracy as
well as precision of concentration estimates. We find that a well-chosen sample
dilution level and modifiable settings such as the fluorescence cut-off for
target copy detection have a substantial impact on reliability and can be adapted
to the sample analysed in ways that matter. User-dependent technical variation,
including pipette inaccuracy and specific sources of sample heterogeneity, leads 
to a steep increase in uncertainty of estimated concentrations. Users can
discover this through replicate experiments and derived variance estimation.
Finally, the detection performance can be improved by optimizing the fluorescence
intensity cut point as suboptimal thresholds reduce the accuracy of concentration
estimates considerably.
CONCLUSIONS: Like any other technology, dPCR is subject to variation induced by
natural perturbations, systematic settings as well as user-dependent protocols.
Corresponding uncertainty may be controlled with an adapted experimental design. 
Our findings point to modifiable key sources of uncertainty that form an
important starting point for the development of guidelines on dPCR design and
data analysis with correct precision bounds. Besides clever choices of sample
dilution levels, experiment-specific tuning of machine settings can greatly
improve results. Well-chosen data-driven fluorescence intensity thresholds in
particular result in major improvements in target presence detection. We call on 
manufacturers to provide sufficiently detailed output data that allows users to
maximize the potential of the method in their setting and obtain high precision
and accuracy for their experiments.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2105-15-283 
PMCID: PMC4261249
PMID: 25147026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2014 Nov;99(11):E2421-8. doi: 10.1210/jc.2014-2174. Epub
2014 Aug 19.

Comprehensive next-generation sequencing analyses of hypoparathyroidism:
identification of novel GCM2 mutations.

Mitsui T(1), Narumi S, Inokuchi M, Nagasaki K, Nakazawa M, Sasaki G, Hasegawa T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics (T.M., S.N., M.I., T.H.), Keio University School of
Medicine, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan; Division of Pediatrics (K.N.), Department of
Homeostatic Regulation and Development, Niigata University Graduate School of
Medicine and Dental Sciences, Niigata 951-8510, Japan; Department of Pediatrics
(M.N.), Tokyo Metropolitan Ohtsuka Hospital, Tokyo 170-8476, Japan; and
Department of Pediatrics (G.S.), Tokyo Dental College Ichikawa General Hospital, 
Chiba 272-8513, Japan.

CONTEXT: In most patients with hypoparathyroidism (HP), the etiology is not
defined clinically. Eight genes (AIRE, CASR, CLDN16, GATA3, GCM2, PTH, TBCE, and 
TRPM6) are known to be responsible genes associated with HP; however, no previous
study has screened the eight responsible genes comprehensively in HP patients.
OBJECTIVES: This study was conducted to determine the genetic defect in HP
patients. We also described clinical and molecular findings of two HP patients
with novel GCM2 mutations.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: We enrolled 20 nonconsanguineous Japanese patients with
child-onset permanent HP without 22q11 deletion. Mutations and genomic
rearrangements involving the eight genes were screened by targeted
next-generation sequencing (NGS). We also screened genetic rearrangements by
array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) in the mutation-negative patients.
A putative deletion, which was suspected by NGS, was additionally analyzed by
droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) and junction PCR. Identified novel nucleotide-level
GCM2 mutants were characterized in vitro.
RESULTS: We identified seven patients with a single gene disorder, including a
CASR mutation, GATA3 mutations, and novel GCM2 mutations (R367Tfs*15, T370M, and 
the deletion encompassing exon 1). This submicroscopic deletion, which had been
suspected by NGS, could not be detected by aCGH and was confirmed by ddPCR and
junction PCR. Functional studies of R367Tfs*- and T370M-GCM2 demonstrated a
reduction of target gene transactivation in both.
CONCLUSIONS: Using comprehensive NGS analyses, we identified the genetic defect
in 35% of HP patients in our cohort and discovered novel GCM2 mutations including
submicroscopic deletion that was undetectable by aCGH.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2014-2174 
PMID: 25137426  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Biomol Detect Quantif. 2014 Aug 20;1(1):8-22. eCollection 2014.

Determining lower limits of detection of digital PCR assays for cancer-related
gene mutations.

Milbury CA(1), Zhong Q(1), Lin J(1), Williams M(1), Olson J(1), Link DR(1),
Hutchison B(1).

Author information: 
(1)RainDance Technologies, 749 Middlesex Turnpike, Billerica, MA 01821, USA.

Digital PCR offers very high sensitivity compared to many other technologies for 
processing molecular detection assays. Herein, a process is outlined for
determining the lower limit of detection (LoD) of two droplet-based digital PCR
assays for point mutations of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene.
Hydrolysis probe mutation-detection assays for EGFR p.L858R and p.T790M mutations
were characterized in detail. Furthermore, sixteen additional cancer-related
mutation assays were explored by the same approach. For the EGFR L8585R assay,
the assay sensitivity is extremely good, and thus, the LoD is limited by the
amount of amplifiable DNA that is analyzed. With 95% confidence limits, the LoD
is one mutant in 180,000 wild-type molecules for the evaluation of 3.3 μg of
genomic DNA, and detection of one mutant molecule in over 4 million wild-type
molecules was achieved when 70 million copies of DNA were processed. The measured
false-positive rate for the EGFR L8585R assay is one in 14 million, which
indicates the theoretical LoD if an unlimited amount of DNA is evaluated. For the
EFGR T790M assay, the LoD is one mutant in 13,000 for analysis of a 3.3 μg sample
of genomic DNA, and the dPCR assay limit sensitivity approaches one mutant in
22,000 wild-type molecules.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bdq.2014.08.001 
PMCID: PMC5129438
PMID: 27920993 


909. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2015 Jan;99(1):445-58. doi: 10.1007/s00253-014-6007-x.
Epub 2014 Aug 13.

Development of droplet digital PCR assays for methanogenic taxa and examination
of methanogen communities in full-scale anaerobic digesters.

Kim TG(1), Jeong SY, Cho KS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Environmental Science and Engineering, Ewha Womans University,
11-1 Daehyun-dong, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul, 120-750, Republic of Korea.

Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) is a new DNA quantification platform without an
external DNA calibrator. This study examined methanogen communities in four
full-scale anaerobic digesters treating municipal sewage sludge, using ddPCR with
taxon-specific primer/TaqMan probe sets (5 orders, 11 families, and 13 genera),
many of which were developed in this study. Total methanogen abundance was
positively correlated with hydraulic retention time (HRT) and temperature
(p < 0.05), though the effect of HRT was stronger (r = 0.864 vs. 0.682,
respectively). Moreover, total abundance was strongly correlated with biogas
production rate (r = 0.896). HRT was positively correlated with seven
methanogenic taxa, while temperature was positively or negatively correlated with
13 taxa (p < 0.05). For instance, the predominant genera Methanosaeta and
Methanosarcina were negatively and positively associated, respectively, with
temperature only (p < 0.05). Redundancy analysis and principal component analysis
using the absolute-abundance dataset indicated that only temperature explained
the variability in the methanogen communities at all classification levels.
Therefore, HRT was the most important operational factor to influence net
methanogen abundance and activity, while temperature governed the composition of 
the methanogen community. ddPCR enabled absolute quantification of methanogens
without the external DNA standards and linked methanogen communities and
operational factors, suggesting that it is a promising tool for analyzing the
microbial ecology of anaerobic digestion.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-014-6007-x 
PMID: 25117548  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Equine Vet J. 2015 Sep;47(5):627-30. doi: 10.1111/evj.12327. Epub 2014 Oct 9.

Occurrence of Treponema DNA in equine hoof canker and normal hoof tissue.

Sykora S(1), Brandt S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research Group Oncology, Equine Clinic, Veterinary University Vienna, Austria.

REASONS FOR PERFORMING STUDY: Equine hoof canker is a chronic pododermatitis of
still unknown aetiology. Recent findings reported for 3 canker-bearing
individuals are suggestive for Treponema spp. having a role in disease
pathogenesis.
OBJECTIVES: Based on this hypothesised association, we assessed a larger number
of DNA samples from hooves with canker and normal hooves for the presence of
treponemal DNA.
STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective survey of archived material.
METHODS: The study involved 71 archival, PCR-compatible DNA extractions purified 
from 59 canker samples obtained from 26 equine cases and from 12 hoof biopsies
taken from 9 canker-free control horses. Presence of treponemal DNA was assessed 
by qualitative PCR using 4 different primer pairs recognising in sum a broad
range of Treponema ssp. Obtained amplification products were identified by
bidirectional sequencing and BLAST alignment.
RESULTS: Treponemal DNA was detected in 37 of 59 canker DNA samples from 19 of 26
cases and in 9 of 12 hoof DNA samples from 7 of 9 healthy individuals. Canine
oral Treponema sp. and Treponema medium ssp. bovis were the most frequently
detected treponemal sequences in hoof canker, while control tissues were mainly
shown to harbour Treponema refringens-like or canine oral Treponema-like DNA. All
control samples tested negative for T. medium ssp. bovis DNA.
CONCLUSIONS: Treponema DNA was detectable in the majority of hoof canker and
control samples. The sample groups differed to some extent regarding identified
Treponema phylotypes; however, this finding may be explained by the methodology
used. Treponemes that are highly similar to bovine digital dermatitis treponemes 
are present in canker lesions. However, further work is needed to clarify the
specific contribution of the identified Treponema phylotypes to the pathogenesis 
of disease.

© 2014 EVJ Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/evj.12327 
PMID: 25115798  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Biomol Detect Quantif. 2014 Aug 15;1(1):1-2. eCollection 2014.

Digital PCR: A brief history.

Morley AA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Haematology and Genetic Pathology, Flinders University and
Medical Centre, Bedford Park, SA 5042, Australia.

Digital PCR for quantification of a target of interest has been independently
developed several times, being described in 1990 and 1991 using the term
"limiting dilution PCR" and in 1999 using the term "digital PCR". It came into
use in the decade following its first development but its use was cut short by
the description of real-time PCR in 1996. However digital PCR has now had a
renaissance due to the recent development of new instruments and chemistry which 
have made it a much simpler and more practical technique.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bdq.2014.06.001 
PMCID: PMC5129430
PMID: 27920991 


912. Epigenomics. 2014 Jun;6(3):311-27. doi: 10.2217/epi.14.20.

DNA methylation markers for early detection of women's cancer: promise and
challenges.

Wittenberger T(1), Sleigh S, Reisel D, Zikan M, Wahl B, Alunni-Fabbroni M, Jones 
A, Evans I, Koch J, Paprotka T, Lempiäinen H, Rujan T, Rack B, Cibula D,
Widschwendter M.

Author information: 
(1)Genedata AG, Margarethenstrasse 38, 4053 Basel, Switzerland.

Breast, ovarian and endometrial cancers cause significant morbidity and
mortality. Despite the presence of existing screening, diagnostic and treatment
modalities, they continue to pose considerable unsolved challenges. Overdiagnosis
is a growing problem in breast cancer screening and neither screening nor early
diagnosis of ovarian or endometrial cancer is currently possible. Moreover,
treatment of the diversity of these cancers presenting in the clinic is not
sufficiently personalized at present. Recent technological advances, including
reduced representation bisulfite sequencing, methylation arrays, digital PCR,
next-generation sequencing and advanced statistical data analysis, enable the
analysis of methylation patterns in cell-free tumor DNA in serum/plasma. Ongoing 
work is bringing these methods together for the analysis of samples from large
clinical trials, which have been collected well in advance of cancer diagnosis.
These efforts pave the way for the development of a noninvasive method that would
enable us to overcome existing challenges to personalized medicine.

DOI: 10.2217/epi.14.20 
PMID: 25111485  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Expert Rev Mol Diagn. 2014 Sep;14(7):787-801. doi: 10.1586/14737159.2014.945437. 
Epub 2014 Aug 11.

Novel droplet platforms for the detection of disease biomarkers.

Zec H(1), Shin DJ, Wang TH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore MD
21218, USA.

Personalized medicine - healthcare based on individual genetic variation - has
the potential to transform the way healthcare is delivered to patients. The
promise of personalized medicine has been predicated on the predictive and
diagnostic power of genomic and proteomic biomarkers. Biomarker screening may
help improve health outcomes, for example, by identifying individuals'
susceptibility to diseases and predicting how patients will respond to drugs.
Microfluidic droplet technology offers an exciting opportunity to revolutionize
the accessibility of personalized medicine. A framework for the role of droplet
microfluidics in biomarker detection can be based on two main themes.
Emulsion-based microdroplet platforms can provide new ways to measure and detect 
biomolecules. In addition, microdroplet platforms facilitate high-throughput
screening of biomarkers. Meanwhile, surface-based droplet platforms provide an
opportunity to develop miniaturized diagnostic systems. These platforms may
function as portable benchtop environments that dramatically shorten the
transition of a benchtop assay into a point-of-care format.

DOI: 10.1586/14737159.2014.945437 
PMID: 25109704  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Life Sci. 2014 Sep 15;113(1-2):60-7. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2014.07.033. Epub 2014
Aug 7.

Progesterone production is affected by unfolded protein response (UPR) signaling 
during the luteal phase in mice.

Park HJ(1), Park SJ(1), Koo DB(2), Lee SR(3), Kong IK(4), Ryoo JW(1), Park YI(5),
Chang KT(6), Lee DS(7).

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Science, KNU Creative BioResearch Group (BK21 Plus Project) and
Biotechnology, Kyungpook National University, Daegu 702-701, Republic of Korea;
Center for Food and Nutritional Genomics Research, Kyungpook National University,
Daegu 702-701, Republic of Korea. (2)Department of Biotechnology, Daegu
University, Gyeongbuk 712-749, Republic of Korea. (3)National Primate Research
Center, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology (KRIBB), Daejeon
305-806, Republic of Korea. (4)Department of Animal Science, Gyeongsang National 
University, Jinju 660-701, Republic of Korea. (5)Graduate School Department of
Digital Media, Ewha Womans University, Seoul 120-750, Republic of Korea.
(6)National Primate Research Center, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and
Biotechnology (KRIBB), Daejeon 305-806, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:
changkt@kribb.re.kr. (7)School of Life Science, KNU Creative BioResearch Group
(BK21 Plus Project) and Biotechnology, Kyungpook National University, Daegu
702-701, Republic of Korea; Center for Food and Nutritional Genomics Research,
Kyungpook National University, Daegu 702-701, Republic of Korea. Electronic
address: lee1@knu.ac.kr.

AIMS: We examined whether the three unfolded protein response (UPR) signaling
pathways, which are activated in response to endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-stress,
are involved in progesterone production in the luteal cells of the corpus luteum 
(CL) during the mouse estrous cycle.
MAIN METHODS: The luteal phase of C57BL/6 female mice (8 weeks old) was divided
into two stages: the functional stage (16, 24, and 48 h) and the regression stage
(72 and 96 h). Western blotting and reverse transcription (RT)-PCR were performed
to analyze UPR protein/gene expression levels in each stage. We investigated
whether ER stress affects the progesterone production by using Tm (0.5 μg/g BW)
or TUDCA (0.5 μg/g BW) through intra-peritoneal injection.
KEY FINDINGS: Our results indicate that expressions of Grp78/Bip, p-eIF2α/ATF4,
p50ATF6, and p-IRE1/sXBP1 induced by UPR activation were predominantly maintained
in functional and early regression stages of the CL. Furthermore, the expression 
of p-JNK, CHOP, and cleaved caspase3 as ER-stress mediated apoptotic factors
increased during the regression stage. Cleaved caspase3 levels increased in the
late-regression stage after p-JNK and CHOP expression in the early-regression
stage. Additionally, although progesterone secretion and levels of steroidogenic 
enzymes decreased following intra-peritoneal injection of Tunicamycin, an ER
stress inducer, the expression of Grp78/Bip, p50ATF6, and CHOP dramatically
increased.
SIGNIFICANCE: These results suggest that the UPR signaling pathways activated in 
response to ER stress may play important roles in the regulation of the CL
function. Furthermore, our findings enhance the understanding of the basic
mechanisms affecting the CL life span.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2014.07.033 
PMID: 25108065  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Nucleic Acids Res. 2014;42(16):e126. doi: 10.1093/nar/gku603. Epub 2014 Aug 7.

Direct elicitation of template concentration from quantification cycle (Cq)
distributions in digital PCR.

Mojtahedi M(1), Fouquier d'Hérouël A(2), Huang S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4,
Canada. (2)Institute for Systems Biology, 401 Terry Ave N, Seattle, WA 98109, USA
Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine, L-4362 Esch-sur-Alzette, Luxembourg
aymeric.dherouel@uni.lu. (3)Department of Biological Sciences, University of
Calgary, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, Canada Institute for Systems Biology, 401 Terry Ave
N, Seattle, WA 98109, USA sui.huang@systemsbiology.org.

Digital PCR (dPCR) exploits limiting dilution of a template into an array of PCR 
reactions. From this array the number of reactions that contain at least one (as 
opposed to zero) initial template is determined, allowing inferring the original 
template concentration. Here we present a novel protocol to efficiently infer the
concentration of a sample and its optimal dilution for dPCR from few targeted
qPCR assays. By taking advantage of the real-time amplification feature of qPCR
as opposed to relying on endpoint PCR assessment as in standard dPCR prior
knowledge of template concentration is not necessary. This eliminates the need
for serial dilutions in a separate titration and reduces the number of necessary 
reactions. We describe the theory underlying our approach and discuss
experimental moments that contribute to uncertainty. We present data from a
controlled experiment where the initial template concentration is known as proof 
of principle and apply our method on directly monitoring transcript level change 
during cell differentiation as well as gauging amplicon numbers in cDNA samples
after pre-amplification.

© The Author(s) 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic
Acids Research.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gku603 
PMCID: PMC4176345
PMID: 25104023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Water Sci Technol. 2014;70(3):555-60. doi: 10.2166/wst.2014.262.

Quantitative detection of human enteric adenoviruses in river water by
microfluidic digital polymerase chain reaction.

Kishida N(1), Noda N(2), Haramoto E(3), Kawaharasaki M(2), Akiba M(1), Sekiguchi 
Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Area on Water Management, Department of Environmental Health, National
Institute of Public Health, 2-3-6 Minami, Wako, Saitama 351-0197, Japan E-mail:
kishida@niph.go.jp. (2)Biomedical Research Institute, National Institute of
Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST), Central 6, Higashi 1-1-1,
Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8566, Japan. (3)Interdisciplinary Graduate School of
Medicine and Engineering, University of Yamanashi, 4-3-11 Takeda, Kofu, Yamanashi
400-8511, Japan.

We describe an assay for simple and accurate quantification of human enteric
adenoviruses (EAdVs) in water samples using a recently developed quantification
method named microfluidic digital polymerase chain reaction (dPCR). The assay is 
based on automatic distribution of reaction mixture into a large number of
nanolitre-volume reaction chambers and absolute copy number quantification from
the number of chambers containing amplification products on the basis of Poisson 
statistics. This assay allows absolute quantification of target genes without the
use of standard DNA. Concentrations of EAdVs in Japanese river water samples were
successfully quantified by the developed dPCR assay. The EAdVs were detected in
seven of the 10 samples (1 L each), and the concentration ranged from 420 to
2,700 copies/L. The quantified values closely resemble those by most probable
number (MPN)-PCR and real-time PCR when standard DNA was validated by dPCR
whereas they varied substantially when the standard was not validated. Accuracy
and sensitivity of the dPCR was higher than those of real-time PCR and MPN-PCR.
To our knowledge, this is the first study that has successfully quantified
enteric viruses in river water using dPCR. This method will contribute to better 
understanding of existence of viruses in water.

DOI: 10.2166/wst.2014.262 
PMID: 25098888  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Jpn J Ophthalmol. 2014 Nov;58(6):528-35. doi: 10.1007/s10384-014-0339-z. Epub
2014 Aug 7.

A novel exon 17 deletion mutation of RPGRIP1 gene in two siblings with Leber
congenital amaurosis.

Suzuki T(1), Fujimaki T, Yanagawa A, Arai E, Fujiki K, Wada Y, Murakami A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Juntendo University Graduate School of Medicine, 
3-1-3 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8431, Japan.

PURPOSE: To investigate mutations of causal genes in two affected male siblings
of a Japanese family with suspected Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA) and to
characterize the related clinical features.
METHODS: After obtaining informed consent, genomic DNA was extracted from
peripheral blood of the proband and his family members. Mutation screening was
initially performed with microarrays. The PCR and direct sequencing were
successively done for confirmation of mutation detected by microarray, and the
two patients who are the subjects of this study were also clinically examined.
RESULTS: Results of the microarray suggested deletion of exon 17 of RPGRIP1.
Confirmation by PCR and direct sequencing following microarray analysis revealed 
that both siblings had homozygous deletion of exon 17 of the RPGRIP1 gene, while 
their unaffected parents were heterozygous carriers. Length of the deletion was
1339 bp including exon 17 at the position of c.2710+372_2895+76del1339. Clinical 
features of the two siblings showed nystagmus, poor visual acuity, hyperopia, and
photophobia since early childhood; but there was no oculo-digital sign, vessel
attenuation or RPE mottling from the mid-retina to the periphery. Full-field
single flash ERG was recordable but 30 Hz flicker ERG was not detectable.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the present patients did not show sufficient clinical
findings as LCA, PCR findings and direct sequencing following microarray analysis
confirmed that they were LCA. Genetic analyses are helpful for confirmation of
clinical diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s10384-014-0339-z 
PMID: 25096270  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. J Dairy Sci. 2014 Oct;97(10):6211-22. doi: 10.3168/jds.2013-7879. Epub 2014 Jul
30.

A randomized trial to evaluate the effect of a trace mineral premix on the
incidence of active digital dermatitis lesions in cattle.

Gomez A(1), Bernardoni N(2), Rieman J(2), Dusick A(2), Hartshorn R(2), Read
DH(3), Socha MT(4), Cook NB(2), Döpfer D(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Veterinary Medicine, University of Wisconsin, 2015 Linden Drive,
Madison 53706-1102. Electronic address: artgomez01@gmail.com. (2)School of
Veterinary Medicine, University of Wisconsin, 2015 Linden Drive, Madison
53706-1102. (3)California Animal Health and Food Safety Laboratory System, School
of Veterinary Medicine, University of California-Davis, San Bernardino Branch,
105 W. Central Avenue, San Bernardino 92408-2113. (4)Zinpro Corporation, 10400
Viking Dr., Ste. 240, Eden Prairie, MN 55344.

A balanced, parallel-group, single-blinded randomized efficacy study divided into
2 periods was conducted to evaluate the effect of a premix containing higher than
typically recommended levels of organic trace minerals and iodine (HOTMI) in
reducing the incidence of active digital dermatitis (DD) lesions acquired
naturally and induced by an experimental infection challenge model. For the
natural exposure phase of the study, 120 healthy Holstein steers 5 to 7 mo of age
without signs of hoof disease were randomized into 2 groups of 60 animals. The
control group was fed a standard trace mineral supplement and the treatment group
was fed the HOTMI premix, both for a period of 60 d. On d 60, 15 steers free of
macroscopic DD lesions were randomly selected from each group for the challenge
phase and transported to an experimental facility, where they were acclimated and
then challenged within a DD infection model. The same diet group allocation was
maintained during the 60 d of the challenge phase. The primary outcome measured
was the development of an active DD lesion greater than 20mm in diameter across
its largest dimension. No lesions were identified during the natural exposure
phase. During the challenge phase, 55% (11/20) and 30% (6/20) of feet were
diagnosed with an active DD lesion in the control and treatment groups,
respectively. Diagnosis of DD was confirmed by histopathologic demonstration of
invasive Treponema spp. within eroded and hyperplastic epidermis and ulcerated
papillary dermis. All DD confirmed lesions had dark-field microscopic features
compatible with DD and were positive for Treponema spp. by PCR. As a secondary
outcome, the average DD lesion size observed in all feet was also evaluated.
Overall mean (standard deviation) lesion size was 17.1 (2.36) mm and 11.1 (3.33) 
mm for the control and treatment groups, respectively, with this difference being
driven by acute DD lesions >20mm. A trend existed for the HOTMI premix to reduce 
the total DD infection rate and the average size of the experimentally induced
lesions. Further research is needed to validate the effect of this intervention
strategy in the field and to generate prevention and control measures aimed at
optimizing claw health based on nutritional programs.

Copyright © 2014 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2013-7879 
PMID: 25087030  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Lab Chip. 2014 Sep 21;14(18):3603-10. doi: 10.1039/c4lc00598h. Epub 2014 Jul 29.

A novel picoliter droplet array for parallel real-time polymerase chain reaction 
based on double-inkjet printing.

Sun Y(1), Zhou X, Yu Y.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory on Integrated Optoelectronics, Institute of
Semiconductors, Chinese Academy of Sciences, P.O. Box 912, Beijing, 100083,
China. yudeyu@semi.ac.cn.

We developed and characterized a novel picoliter droplet-in-oil array generated
by a double-inkjet printing method on a uniform hydrophobic silicon chip
specifically designed for quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) analysis.
Double-inkjet printing was proposed to efficiently address the evaporation issues
of picoliter droplets during array generation on a planar substrate without the
assistance of a humidifier or glycerol. The method utilizes piezoelectric inkjet 
printing equipment to precisely eject a reagent droplet into an oil droplet,
which had first been dispensed on a hydrophobic and oleophobic substrate. No
evaporation, random movement, or cross-contamination was observed during array
fabrication and thermal cycling. We demonstrated the feasibility and
effectiveness of this novel double-inkjet method for real-time PCR analysis. This
method can readily produce multivolume droplet-in-oil arrays with volume
variations ranging from picoliters to nanoliters. This feature would be useful
for simultaneous multivolume PCR experiments aimed at wide and tunable dynamic
ranges. These double-inkjet-based picoliter droplet arrays may have potential for
multiplexed applications that require isolated containers for single-cell
cultures, single molecular enzymatic assays, or digital PCR and provide an
alternative option for generating droplet arrays on planar substrates without
chemical patterning.

DOI: 10.1039/c4lc00598h 
PMID: 25070461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Prenat Diagn. 2014 Dec;34(13):1283-8. doi: 10.1002/pd.4468. Epub 2014 Aug 21.

Stability of cell-free DNA from maternal plasma isolated following a single
centrifugation step.

Barrett AN(1), Thadani HA, Laureano-Asibal C, Ponnusamy S, Choolani M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine,
National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.

OBJECTIVE: Cell-free fetal DNA can be used for prenatal testing with no
procedure-related risk to the fetus. However, yield of fetal DNA is low compared 
with maternal cell-free DNA fragments, resulting in technical challenges for some
downstream applications. To maximize the fetal fraction, careful blood processing
procedures are essential. We demonstrate that fetal fraction can be preserved
using a single centrifugation step followed by postage of plasma to the
laboratory for further processing.
METHODS: Digital PCR was used to quantify copies of total, maternal, and fetal
DNA present in single-spun plasma at time points over a two-week period, compared
with immediately processed double-spun plasma, with storage at room temperature, 
4°C, and -80°C representing different postage scenarios.
RESULTS: There was no significant change in total, maternal, or fetal DNA copy
numbers when single-spun plasma samples were stored for up to 1 week at room
temperature and 2 weeks at -80°C compared with plasma processed within 4 h.
Following storage at 4°C no change in composition of cell-free DNA was observed.
CONCLUSIONS: Single-spun plasma can be transported at room temperature if the
journey is expected to take one week or less; shipping on dry ice is preferable
for longer journeys.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pd.4468 
PMID: 25066782  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. J Virol Methods. 2014 Oct;207:200-3. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2014.07.014. Epub
2014 Jul 24.

Droplet digital PCR as a useful tool for the quantitative detection of
Enterovirus 71.

Lui YL(1), Tan EL(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemical and Life Sciences, Singapore Polytechnic, Singapore,
Singapore; Centre for Biomedical and Life Sciences, Singapore Polytechnic,
Singapore, Singapore; School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Health,
Queensland University of Technology, Queensland, Australia; Institute of Health
and Biomedical Innovation, Queensland University of Technology, Queensland,
Australia. Electronic address: edmundyanlong.lui@student.qut.edu.au. (2)Centre
for Biomedical and Life Sciences, Singapore Polytechnic, Singapore, Singapore;
Department of Paediatrics, University Children's Medical Institute, National
University Hospital, Singapore, Singapore. Electronic address: englee@sp.edu.sg.

Hand, foot and mouth disease (HFMD) is a contagious viral disease that frequently
affects infants and children and present with blisters and flu-like symptoms.
This disease is caused by a group of enteroviruses such as enterovirus 71 (EV71) 
and coxsackievirus A16 (CA16). However, unlike other HFMD causing enteroviruses, 
EV71 have also been shown to be associated with more severe clinical
manifestation such as aseptic meningitis, brainstem and cerebellar encephalitis
which may lead to cardiopulmonary failure and death. Clinically, HFMD caused by
EV71 is indistinguishable from other HFMD causing enteroviruses such as CA16.
Molecular diagnosis methods such as the use of real-time PCR has been used
commonly for the identification of EV71. In this study, two platforms namely the 
real-time PCR and the droplet digital PCR were compared for the detection
quantitation of known EV71 viral copy number. The results reveal accurate and
consistent results between the two platforms. In summary, the droplet digital PCR
was demonstrated to be a promising technology for the identification and
quantitation of EV71 viral copy number.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2014.07.014 
PMID: 25064359  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2014 Oct;99(10):E2029-38. doi: 10.1210/jc.2014-1291.
Epub 2014 Jul 25.

McCune-Albright syndrome: a detailed pathological and genetic analysis of disease
effects in an adult patient.

Vasilev V(1), Daly AF, Thiry A, Petrossians P, Fina F, Rostomyan L, Silvy M,
Enjalbert A, Barlier A, Beckers A.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Endocrinology (V.V., A.F.D., P.P., L.R., A.Be.) and
Pathological Anatomy (A.T.), Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Liège,
University of Liège, Domaine Universitaire du Sart Tilman, 4000 Liège, Belgium;
Department of Biological Oncology Transfer (F.F.), Laboratory of Medical Biology,
Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Marseille, 13354 Marseille, France; and
Laboratory of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (M.S., A.E., A.Ba.), Centre
Hospitalier Universitaire Conception, University of the Mediterranean, 13007
Marseille, France.

CONTEXT: McCune Albright syndrome (MAS) is a clinical association of endocrine
and nonendocrine anomalies caused by postzygotic mutation of the GNAS1 gene,
leading to somatic activation of the stimulatory α-subunit of G protein (Gsα).
Important advances have been made recently in describing pathological
characteristics of many MAS-affected tissues, particularly pituitary, testicular,
and adrenal disease. Other rarer disease related features are emerging.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of the investigation was to study the pathological and
genetic findings of MAS on a tissue-by-tissue basis in classically and
nonclassically affected tissues.
DESIGN: This was a comprehensive autopsy and genetic analysis.
SETTING: The study was conducted at a tertiary referral university hospital.
PATIENTS: An adult male patient with MAS and severe disease burden including
gigantism was the subject of the study.
INTERVENTION(S): Interventions included clinical, hormonal, and radiographic
studies and gross and microscopic pathology analyses, conventional PCR, and
droplet digital PCR analyses of affected and nonaffected tissues.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Pathological findings and the presence of GNAS1 mutations
were measured.
RESULTS: The patient was diagnosed with MAS syndrome at 6 years of age based on
the association of café-au-lait spots and radiological signs of polyostotic
fibrous dysplasia. Gigantism developed and hyperprolactinemia, hypogonadotropic
hypogonadism, and hyperparathyroidism were diagnosed throughout the adult period.
The patient died at the age of 39 years from a pulmonary embolism. A detailed
study revealed mosaiscism for the p.R201C GNAS1 mutation distributed across many 
endocrine and nonendocrine tissues. These genetically implicated tissues included
rare or previously undescribed disease associations including primary
hyperparathyroidism and hyperplasia of the thymus and endocrine pancreas.
CONCLUSIONS: This comprehensive pathological study of a single patient highlights
the complex clinical profile of MAS and illustrates important advances in
understanding the characteristics of somatic GNAS1-related pathology across a
wide range of affected organs.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2014-1291 
PMID: 25062453  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Nat Commun. 2014 Jul 24;5:4519. doi: 10.1038/ncomms5519.

Arrayed lipid bilayer chambers allow single-molecule analysis of membrane
transporter activity.

Watanabe R(1), Soga N(2), Fujita D(2), Tabata KV(3), Yamauchi L(4), Hyeon Kim
S(5), Asanuma D(6), Kamiya M(7), Urano Y(7), Suga H(8), Noji H(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Applied Chemistry, Graduate School of Engineering, The
University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan [2] PRESTO, JST, Bunkyo-ku,
Tokyo 113-8656, Japan [3] CREST, JST, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan [4]. (2)1]
Department of Applied Chemistry, Graduate School of Engineering, The University
of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan [2]. (3)1] Department of Applied
Chemistry, Graduate School of Engineering, The University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku,
Tokyo 113-8656, Japan [2] PRESTO, JST, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan [3]
CREST, JST, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan. (4)1] Department of Applied
Chemistry, Graduate School of Engineering, The University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku,
Tokyo 113-8656, Japan [2] CREST, JST, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan. (5)1]
CREST, JST, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan [2] Institute of Industrial Science,
The University of Tokyo, Meguro-ku, Tokyo 153-8505, Japan. (6)Laboratory of
Neurobiology, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku,
Tokyo 113-0033, Japan. (7)Laboratory of Chemical Biology and Molecular Imaging,
Graduate School of Medicine, The University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, 
Japan. (8)1] CREST, JST, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan [2] Department of
Chemistry, Graduate School of Science, The University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 
113-8656, Japan.

Nano- to micron-size reaction chamber arrays (femtolitre chamber arrays) have
facilitated the development of sensitive and quantitative biological assays, such
as single-molecule enzymatic assays, digital PCR and digital ELISA. However, the 
versatility of femtolitre chamber arrays is limited to reactions that occur in
aqueous solutions. Here we report an arrayed lipid bilayer chamber system (ALBiC)
that contains sub-million femtolitre chambers, each sealed with a stable
4-μm-diameter lipid bilayer membrane. When reconstituted with a limiting amount
of the membrane transporter proteins α-hemolysin or F0F1-ATP synthase, the
chambers within the ALBiC exhibit stochastic and quantized transporting
activities. This demonstrates that the single-molecule analysis of passive and
active membrane transport is achievable with the ALBiC system. This new platform 
broadens the versatility of femtolitre chamber arrays and paves the way for novel
applications aimed at furthering our mechanistic understanding of membrane
proteins' function.

DOI: 10.1038/ncomms5519 
PMCID: PMC4124872
PMID: 25058452  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Crit Care. 2014 Jun 6;18(3):433. doi: 10.1186/cc13910.

Quantification of IgM molecular response by droplet digital PCR as a potential
tool for the early diagnosis of sepsis.

Tamayo E, Almansa R, Carrasco E, Ávila-Alonso A, Rodríguez-Fernández A, Wain J,
Heredia M, Gomez-Sanchez E, Soria S, Rico L, Iglesias V, Martínez-Martínez A,
Andaluz-Ojeda D, Herreras JI, Eiros JM, Bermejo-Martin JF.

DOI: 10.1186/cc13910 
PMCID: PMC4075261
PMID: 25043844  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Curr Protoc Hum Genet. 2014 Jul 14;82:7.24.1-13. doi:
10.1002/0471142905.hg0724s82.

Digital Droplet PCR: CNV Analysis and Other Applications.

Mazaika E(1), Homsy J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.

Digital droplet PCR (ddPCR) is an assay that combines state-of-the-art
microfluidics technology with TaqMan-based PCR to achieve precise target DNA
quantification at high levels of sensitivity and specificity. Because
quantification is achieved without the need for standard assays in an easy to
interpret, unambiguous digital readout, ddPCR is far simpler, faster, and less
error prone than real-time qPCR. The basic protocol can be modified with minor
adjustments to suit a wide range of applications, such as CNV analysis, rare
variant detection, SNP genotyping, and transcript quantification. This unit
describes the ddPCR workflow in detail for the Bio-Rad QX100 system, but the
theory and data interpretation are generalizable to any ddPCR system.

Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/0471142905.hg0724s82 
PMCID: PMC4355013
PMID: 25042719  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Br J Haematol. 2014 Dec;167(5):710-4. doi: 10.1111/bjh.13038. Epub 2014 Jul 18.

Quantification of rare NPM1 mutation subtypes by digital PCR.

Bacher U(1), Dicker F, Haferlach C, Alpermann T, Rose D, Kern W, Haferlach T,
Schnittger S.

Author information: 
(1)MLL Munich Leukaemia Laboratory, Munich, Germany.

DOI: 10.1111/bjh.13038 
PMID: 25039748  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Leukemia. 2015 Feb;29(2):369-76. doi: 10.1038/leu.2014.217. Epub 2014 Jul 18.

A certified plasmid reference material for the standardisation of BCR-ABL1 mRNA
quantification by real-time quantitative PCR.

White H(1), Deprez L(2), Corbisier P(2), Hall V(3), Lin F(1), Mazoua S(2),
Trapmann S(2), Aggerholm A(4), Andrikovics H(5), Akiki S(6), Barbany G(7), Boeckx
N(8), Bench A(9), Catherwood M(10), Cayuela JM(11), Chudleigh S(12), Clench
T(13), Colomer D(14), Daraio F(15), Dulucq S(16), Farrugia J(17), Fletcher L(18),
Foroni L(19), Ganderton R(20), Gerrard G(19), Gineikienė E(21), Hayette S(22), El
Housni H(23), Izzo B(24), Jansson M(25), Johnels P(26), Jurcek T(27), Kairisto
V(28), Kizilors A(29), Kim DW(30), Lange T(31), Lion T(32), Polakova KM(33),
Martinelli G(34), McCarron S(35), Merle PA(36), Milner B(37),
Mitterbauer-Hohendanner G(38), Nagar M(39), Nickless G(40), Nomdedéu J(41),
Nymoen DA(42), Leibundgut EO(43), Ozbek U(44), Pajič T(45), Pfeifer H(46),
Preudhomme C(47), Raudsepp K(48), Romeo G(49), Sacha T(50), Talmaci R(51),
Touloumenidou T(52), Van der Velden VH(53), Waits P(54), Wang L(55), Wilkinson
E(56), Wilson G(57), Wren D(58), Zadro R(59), Ziermann J(60), Zoi K(61), Müller
MC(62), Hochhaus A(60), Schimmel H(2), Cross NC(1), Emons H(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] National Genetics Reference Laboratory (Wessex), Salisbury District
Hospital, Salisbury, UK [2] Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton,
Southampton, UK. (2)European Commission, Joint Research Centre, Institute for
Reference Materials and Measurements, Geel, Belgium. (3)National Genetics
Reference Laboratory (Wessex), Salisbury District Hospital, Salisbury, UK.
(4)Department of Haematology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark.
(5)Hungarian National Blood Transfusion Service, Budapest, Hungary. (6)Regional
Genetics Laboratory, Birmingham Women's NHS Foundation Trust, Birmingham, UK.
(7)Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Clinical Genetics Karolinska
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. (8)1] Department of Laboratory Medicine, UZ
Leuven, Belgium [2] Department of Oncology, KU Leuven, Belgium. (9)Molecular
Malignancy Laboratory and Haemato-Oncology Diagnostic Service, Cambridge
University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Cambridge, UK. (10)Haematology
Department, Belfast City Hospital, Belfast, UK. (11)Haematology Laboratory and
EA3518, University Hospital Saint-Louis, AP-HP, University Paris Diderot, Paris, 
France. (12)Department of Molecular Haematology, Yorkhill NHS Trust, Glasgow, UK.
(13)Molecular Haematology, Bristol Royal Infirmary, Bristol, UK.
(14)Hematopathology Unit, Hospital Clinic, IDIBAPS, Barcelona, Spain.
(15)Department of Clinical and Biological Science, University of Turin, Turin,
Italy. (16)Laboratoire Hematologie, CHU Bordeaux, Hematopoiese Leucemique et
Cibles Therapeutiques, INSERM U1035, Universite Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France.
(17)Combined Laboratories, Derriford Hospital, Plymouth, UK. (18)Department of
Genetics and Molecular Pathology, SA Pathology, Adelaide, SA, Australia.
(19)Imperial Molecular Pathology, Centre for Haematology, Imperial College
London, London, UK. (20)Molecular Pathology, University Hospitals Southampton NHS
Foundation Trust, Southampton, UK. (21)Hematology, Oncology and Transfusion
Medicine Center, Vilnius University Hospital Santariskiu Clinics, Vilnius,
Lithuania. (22)Laboratory of Molecular Biology and UMR5239, Centre Hospitalier
Lyon-Sud, Hospices Civils de Lyon, Pierre Bénite, France. (23)Medical Genetics
Department, Erasme Hospital, Brussels, Belgium. (24)Department of Clinical
Medicine and Surgery, University 'Federico II' of Naples, Naples, Italy.
(25)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Uppsala University,
Uppsala, Sweden. (26)Department of Clinical Genetics, University and Regional
Laboratories, Lund, Sweden. (27)Department of Internal Medicine-Hematology and
Oncology, Masaryk University and University Hospital Brno, Brno, Czech Republic. 
(28)Turku University Hospital, TYKSLAB, Laboratory of Molecular Genetics, Turku, 
Finland. (29)Laboratory for Molecular Haemato-Oncology, Kings College Hospital,
London, UK. (30)Cancer Research Institute, The Catholic University of Korea,
Seoul, South Korea. (31)Abteilung für Hämatologie und internistische Onkologie,
Universität Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany. (32)Children's Cancer Research
Institute/LabDia Labordiagnostik and Medical University, Vienna, Austria.
(33)Institute of Hematology and Blood Transfusion, Prague, Czech Republic.
(34)Department of Experimental, Diagnostic and Specialty Medicine, University of 
Bologna, Bologna, Italy. (35)Cancer Molecular Diagnostics, St James's Hospital,
Dublin, Ireland. (36)VU Medical Centre, Department of Haematology, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands. (37)Department of Medical Genetics, NHS-Grampian, Aberdeen, UK.
(38)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna,
Austria. (39)Laboratory of Hematology, Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer,
Israel. (40)Molecular Oncology Diagnostics Unit, Guy's Hospital, London, UK.
(41)Lab Hematologia, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Barcelona, Spain.
(42)Division of Pathology, Rikshospital, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway. 
(43)Molecular Diagnostics Laboratory, Department of Hematology, University
Hospital Bern, Bern, Switzerland. (44)Genetics Department, Institute of
Experimental Medicine (DETAE), Istanbul University, Istanbul, Turkey.
(45)Specialized Haematology Laboratory, Division of Internal Medicine, Department
of Haematology, University Medical Centre, Ljubljana, Slovenia. (46)Department of
Internal Medicine, Hematology/Oncology, Goethe University, Frankfurt, Germany.
(47)Laboratoire d'hématologie, CHU Lille, Lille, France. (48)United Laboratories 
of Tartu University Hospitals, Tartu, Estonia. (49)Molecular Haematology
Laboratory, PathWest Laboratory Medicine, Royal Perth Hospital, Perth, WA,
Australia. (50)Hematology Department, Jagiellonian University, Krakow, Poland.
(51)Hematology Department, Fundeni Clinical Institute, University of Medicine and
Pharmacy 'Carol Davila', Bucharest, Romania. (52)Hematology Department and HCT
Unit, G. Papanicolaou Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece. (53)Department of
Immunology, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. (54)Bristol Genetics
Laboratory, Southmead Hospital, Bristol, UK. (55)Department of Haematology, Royal
Liverpool University Hospital, Liverpool, UK. (56)HMDS, Leeds Institute of
Oncology, St James's University Hospital, Leeds, UK. (57)Sheffield Diagnostic
Genetics Service, Sheffield Children's NHS Foundation Trust, Sheffield, UK.
(58)Molecular Diagnostics, The Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust, Sutton, UK.
(59)Department of Laboratory Diagnostics, Clinical Hospital Center, Zagreb
University School of Medicine, Zagreb, Croatia. (60)Department of
Hematology/Oncology, Jena University Hospital, Jena, Germany. (61)Haematology
Research Laboratory, Biomedical Research Foundation, Academy of Athens, Athens,
Greece. (62)III. Medizinische Klinik, Medizinische Fakultät Mannheim der
Universität Heidelberg, Mannheim, Germany.

Serial quantification of BCR-ABL1 mRNA is an important therapeutic indicator in
chronic myeloid leukaemia, but there is a substantial variation in results
reported by different laboratories. To improve comparability, an internationally 
accepted plasmid certified reference material (CRM) was developed according to
ISO Guide 34:2009. Fragments of BCR-ABL1 (e14a2 mRNA fusion), BCR and GUSB
transcripts were amplified and cloned into pUC18 to yield plasmid pIRMM0099. Six 
different linearised plasmid solutions were produced with the following copy
number concentrations, assigned by digital PCR, and expanded uncertainties:
1.08±0.13 × 10(6), 1.08±0.11 × 10(5), 1.03±0.10 × 10(4), 1.02±0.09 × 10(3),
1.04±0.10 × 10(2) and 10.0±1.5 copies/μl. The certification of the material for
the number of specific DNA fragments per plasmid, copy number concentration of
the plasmid solutions and the assessment of inter-unit heterogeneity and
stability were performed according to ISO Guide 35:2006. Two suitability studies 
performed by 63 BCR-ABL1 testing laboratories demonstrated that this set of 6
plasmid CRMs can help to standardise a number of measured transcripts of e14a2
BCR-ABL1 and three control genes (ABL1, BCR and GUSB). The set of six plasmid
CRMs is distributed worldwide by the Institute for Reference Materials and
Measurements (Belgium) and its authorised distributors
(https://ec.europa.eu/jrc/en/reference-materials/catalogue/; CRM code
ERM-AD623a-f).

DOI: 10.1038/leu.2014.217 
PMCID: PMC4320294
PMID: 25036192  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Sci Rep. 2014 Jul 16;4:5698. doi: 10.1038/srep05698.

Transcriptome analysis of Acidovorax avenae subsp. avenae cultivated in vivo and 
co-culture with Burkholderia seminalis.

Li B(1), Ibrahim M(1), Ge M(2), Cui Z(2), Sun G(3), Xu F(4), Kube M(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] State Key Laboratory of Rice Biology, Institute of Biotechnology, Zhejiang 
University, 310058, Hangzhou, China [2]. (2)State Key Laboratory of Rice Biology,
Institute of Biotechnology, Zhejiang University, 310058, Hangzhou, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory Breeding Base for Zhejiang Sustainable Plant Pest and
Disease Control, Key Laboratory of Detection for Pesticide Residues, Ministry of 
Agriculture, Zhejiang Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Hangzhou 310021, China.
(4)Institute of Digital Agriculture, Zhejiang Academy of Agricultural Sciences,
Hangzhou 310021, China. (5)Faculty of Agriculture and Horticulture,
Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, 14195 Berlin, Germany.

Response of bacterial pathogen to environmental bacteria and its host is critical
for understanding of microbial adaption and pathogenesis. Here, we used RNA-Seq
to comprehensively and quantitatively assess the transcriptional response of
Acidovorax avenae subsp. avenae strain RS-1 cultivated in vitro, in vivo and in
co-culture with rice rhizobacterium Burkholderia seminalis R456. Results revealed
a slight response to other bacteria, but a strong response to host. In
particular, a large number of virulence associated genes encoding Type I to VI
secretion systems, 118 putative non-coding RNAs, and 7 genomic islands (GIs) were
differentially expressed in vivo based on comparative genomic and transcriptomic 
analyses. Furthermore, the loss of virulence for knockout mutants of 11
differentially expressed T6SS genes emphasized the importance of these genes in
bacterial pathogenicity. In addition, the reliability of expression data obtained
by RNA-Seq was supported by quantitative real-time PCR of the 25 selected T6SS
genes. Overall, this study highlighted the role of differentially expressed genes
in elucidating bacterial pathogenesis based on combined analysis of RNA-Seq data 
and knockout of T6SS genes.

DOI: 10.1038/srep05698 
PMCID: PMC4099980
PMID: 25027476  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. BMC Med Genomics. 2014 Jul 15;7:44. doi: 10.1186/1755-8794-7-44.

Measurement of absolute copy number variation reveals association with essential 
hypertension.

Marques FZ, Prestes PR, Pinheiro LB, Scurrah K, Emslie KR, Tomaszewski M, Harrap 
SB, Charchar FJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Science, Federation University Australia, Y Building, University
Drive, Mt Helen, 3350, Ballarat, VIC, Australia. f.charchar@federation.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: The role of copy number variation (CNV) has been poorly explored in
essential hypertension in part due to technical difficulties in accurately
assessing absolute numbers of DNA copies. Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) provides a 
powerful new approach to CNV quantitation. The aim of our study was to
investigate whether CNVs located in regions previously associated with blood
pressure (BP) variation in genome-wide association studies (GWAS) were associated
with essential hypertension by the use of ddPCR.
METHODS: Using a "power of extreme" approach, we quantified nucleic acids using
ddPCR in white subjects from the Victorian Family Heart Study with extremely high
(n = 96) and low (n = 92) SBP, providing power equivalent to 1714 subjects
selected at random.
RESULTS: A deletion of the CNVs esv27061 and esv2757747 on chromosome 1p13.2 was 
significantly more prevalent in extreme high BP subjects after adjustment for
age, body mass index and sex (12.6% vs. 2.2%; P = 0.013).
CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggests that CNVs within regions identified in previous
GWAS may play a role in human essential hypertension.

DOI: 10.1186/1755-8794-7-44 
PMCID: PMC4107748
PMID: 25027169  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Vet Immunol Immunopathol. 2014 Sep 15;161(1-2):12-20. doi:
10.1016/j.vetimm.2014.05.005. Epub 2014 May 21.

Differential inflammatory responses of bovine foot skin fibroblasts and
keratinocytes to digital dermatitis treponemes.

Evans NJ(1), Brown JM(2), Scholey R(2), Murray RD(3), Birtles RJ(4), Hart CA(5), 
Carter SD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infection Biology, Institute of Infection and Global Health,
University of Liverpool, Liverpool L3 5RF, UK. Electronic address:
evansnj@liverpool.ac.uk. (2)Department of Infection Biology, Institute of
Infection and Global Health, University of Liverpool, Liverpool L3 5RF, UK.
(3)School of Veterinary Science, University of Liverpool, Leahurst, Neston CH64
7TE, UK. (4)School of Environment & Life Sciences, University of Salford, Salford
M5 4WT, UK. (5)Department of Medical Microbiology, University of Liverpool,
Liverpool L69 3GA, UK.

Bovine digital dermatitis (BDD) is a serious infectious inflammatory lameness
causing pain and suffering to many cattle worldwide and which has severe economic
implications. This study set out to investigate relationships between the
treponemes considered causal of BDD and the local inflammatory response of the
bovine host. Here we describe, for the first time, the isolation of bovine foot
skin keratinocytes and fibroblasts as separate cell lineages. These cell lines
were then exposed to treponeme whole-cell sonicates, and the gene expression of
selected host inflammatory mediators investigated using quantitative reverse
transcriptase PCR. Several genes, including those encoding RANTES/CCL5, MMP12,
TNFα, TGFβ and TIMP3 were significantly upregulated in fibroblasts exposed to
whole-cell sonicates derived from BDD treponeme phylotypes. For each of the above
genes there were similar fibroblast expression increases for all three BDD
treponeme phylotypes tested, suggesting common virulence mechanisms. With bovine 
foot skin keratinocytes, we were unable to detect expression of RANTES/CCL5 and
after incubation with BDD treponeme constituents we were unable to observe any
significant changes in expression of inflammatory mediators tested. These
contrasting results suggest fibroblasts rather than keratinocytes may be an
important shared target of pathogenesis for BDD treponemes.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetimm.2014.05.005 
PMID: 25022220  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. J Virol Methods. 2014 Oct;207:169-77. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2014.07.006. Epub
2014 Jul 11.

High-throughput and sensitive next-generation droplet digital PCR assay for the
quantitation of the hepatitis C virus mutation at core amino acid 70.

Mukaide M(1), Sugiyama M(2), Korenaga M(3), Murata K(2), Kanto T(2), Masaki N(2),
Mizokami M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Research Center for Hepatitis and Immunology, National Center for Global
Health and Medicine, 1-7-1 Kohonodi, Ichikawa, Chiba 272-8516 Japan; Research and
development department, SRL, Inc., 5-6-50 Shin, Hino, Tokyo 191-0002, Japan.
(2)Research Center for Hepatitis and Immunology, National Center for Global
Health and Medicine, 1-7-1 Kohonodi, Ichikawa, Chiba 272-8516 Japan. (3)Research 
Center for Hepatitis and Immunology, National Center for Global Health and
Medicine, 1-7-1 Kohonodi, Ichikawa, Chiba 272-8516 Japan. Electronic address:
dmkorenaga@hospk.ncgm.go.jp.

The next-generation droplet digital polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR) assay
employs an emulsion-based endpoint to quantitate the amount of target DNA and is 
more robust than real-time PCR when analyzing sequence variations. However, no
studies have applied this technique to quantitate mutations in polymorphic viral 
genomes. To develop this approach, a ddPCR-based assay was designed to quantitate
with high-throughput and sensitivity mutations and their frequencies in codon 70 
of the hepatitis C virus (HCV) gene that encodes the Core protein. The assay was 
linear from 2.5 to 10(5) copies per assay, and the limit of detection of mutants 
in the presence of a 20,000-fold excess of wild type was 0.005%. The results
correlated well with those obtained using the COBAS(®) TaqMan(®) HCV Test, which 
is a real-time PCR assay for the quantitative detection of HCV RNA in human serum
(n=87; range, 2.3-7.7log10IU/mL; Pearson's R(2)=0.9120; p<0.0001). The median
frequencies of mutations by ddPCR were 0.262% (n=55; range, 0-37.951%) and
99.687% (n=32; range, 52.191-100%) for the wild-type and mutant sequences,
respectively, by direct sequencing. The ddPCR assay should be useful for
quantitating mutations in other polymorphic viral genomes.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2014.07.006 
PMID: 25019167  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Biol Reprod. 2014 Aug;91(2):49. doi: 10.1095/biolreprod.114.120832. Epub 2014 Jul
9.

Increased MAP kinase inhibition enhances epiblast-specific gene expression in
bovine blastocysts.

McLean Z(1), Meng F(1), Henderson H(1), Turner P(1), Oback B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Reproductive Technologies, Ruakura Research Centre, AgResearch Ltd., Hamilton,
New Zealand. (2)Reproductive Technologies, Ruakura Research Centre, AgResearch
Ltd., Hamilton, New Zealand bjorn.oback@agresearch.co.nz.

Mammalian blastocysts comprise three distinct lineages, namely, trophoblast,
hypoblast, and epiblast, which develop into fetal placenta, extraembryonic yolk
sac, and embryo proper, respectively. Pluripotent embryonic stem cells, capable
of forming all adult cell types, can only be derived from the epiblast. In mouse 
and rat, this process is promoted by the double inhibition (2i) of
mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MAP2K), which antagonizes FGF signaling,
and glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3), which stimulates the WNT pathway. We
investigated variations of the 2i treatment on lineage segregation and
pluripotency-related gene expression in bovine blastocysts. In vitro-fertilized
embryos were cultured either in the presence of inhibitors of GSK3 (3 μM CHIR)
and MAP2K (0.4 vs. 10 μM PD0325901, designated 2i and 2i+, respectively) or in
2i/2i+ with FGFR inhibitor (0.1 μM PD173074, designated 3i [2i and PD173074] and 
3i+ [2i+ and PD173074]). Compared with 2i, both 2i+ and 3i+ potentiated the
improvement in blastocyst morphology. Using an automated platform for multiplexed
digital mRNA profiling, we simultaneously counted transcripts of 76 candidate
genes in bovine blastocysts treated with multiple kinase inhibitors. We show that
2i+ medium specifically increased FGF4 and NANOG while reducing PDGFRalpha and
SOX17 levels. The shift from a hypoblast to an epiblast gene expression signature
was confirmed by quantitative PCR. A wide range of functionally related genes,
including candidates involved in DNA methylation, were not significantly changed.
This well-defined 2i+ effect was not observed after pharmacologically inhibiting 
FGF receptor or related MAP kinases (p38, JNK, and ERK5). In summary, our data
suggest that increased MAP2K inhibition exerts its pluripotency-promoting effects
through as yet unidentified signals.

© 2014 by the Society for the Study of Reproduction, Inc.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.114.120832 
PMID: 25009207  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Endocrinology. 2014 Sep;155(9):3694-8. doi: 10.1210/en.2014-1150. Epub 2014 Jul
8.

Analysis of β-cell death in type 1 diabetes by droplet digital PCR.

Usmani-Brown S(1), Lebastchi J, Steck AK, Beam C, Herold KC, Ledizet M.

Author information: 
(1)L2 Diagnostics (S.U.-B., M.L.), New Haven, Connecticut 06511; Departments of
Immunobiology and Internal Medicine (J.L., K.C.H.), Yale University School of
Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520; Barbara Davis Center for Childhood
Diabetes (A.K.S.), University of Colorado Denver, Aurora, Colorado 80045; and
Department of Pediatrics (C.B.), University of South Florida, Tampa, Florida
33606.

Type 1 diabetes (T1D) and other forms of diabetes are due to the killing of
β-cells. However, the loss of β-cells has only been assessed by functional
studies with a liquid meal or glucose that can be affected by environmental
factors. As an indirect measure of β-cell death, we developed an assay using a
novel droplet digital PCR that detects INS DNA derived from β-cells. The release 
of INS DNA with epigenetic modifications (unmethylated CpG) identifies the
β-cellular source of the DNA. The assay can detect unmethylated DNA between a
range of approximately 600 copies/μL and 0.7 copies/μL, with a regression
coefficient for the log transformed copy number of 0.99. The assay was specific
for unmethylated INS DNA in mixtures with methylated INS DNA. We analyzed the
levels of unmethylated INS DNA in patients with recent onset T1D and
normoglycemia subjects at high risk for disease and found increased levels of
unmethylated INS DNA compared with nondiabetic control subjects (P < .0001). More
than one-third of T1D patients and one-half of at-risk subjects had levels that
were more than 2 SD than the mean of nondiabetic control subjects. We conclude
that droplet digital PCR is a useful method to detect β-cell death and is more
specific and feasible than other methods, such as nested real-time PCR. This new 
method may be a valuable tool for analyzing pathogenic mechanisms and the effects
of treatments in all forms of diabetes.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2014-1150 
PMCID: PMC4138562
PMID: 25004096  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Pediatr Res. 2014 Oct;76(4):334-40. doi: 10.1038/pr.2014.104. Epub 2014 Jul 8.

MicroRNAs participate in the murine oligodendroglial response to perinatal
hypoxia-ischemia.

Birch D(1), Britt BC(1), Dukes SC(2), Kessler JA(1), Dizon ML(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois.

BACKGROUND: Hypoxic-ischemic injury (HI) to preterm brain results in white matter
loss. The endogenous oligodendroglial response to perinatal HI is characterized
by increased oligodendroglial progenitor cells (OPCs). MicroRNAs (miRs) are
important post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression, and a few miRs have
been shown to regulate differentiation of OPCs into mature oligodendroglia. We
tested the hypothesis that miRs play a role in the increase in OPCs in response
to perinatal HI.
METHODS: We inducibly deleted the miR-processing enzyme Dicer in OPCs using a
tamoxifen-inducible NG2CreER(T2) transgene in Dicer(fl/fl) mice. After HI, mice
were analyzed for OPC differentiation using immunofluorescence and for white
matter formation by Luxol fast blue (LFB) staining. Functional recovery from
injury was investigated using digital gait analysis. We also tested whether HI
changed miRs known to regulate OPC differentiation using quantitative RT-PCR.
RESULTS: Perinatal HI induced significant increases in miR-138 and miR-338, two
miRs known to regulate OPC differentiation. Knockdown of Dicer increased myelin
basic protein and LFB staining within the corpus callosum after HI. In addition, 
there was significant improvement in motor function 14 and 24 d post lesion.
CONCLUSION: Changes in specific mature miRs expressed in OPCs following HI may
contribute to white matter injury.

DOI: 10.1038/pr.2014.104 
PMCID: PMC4167925
PMID: 25003912  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Eur J Cancer Prev. 2014 Sep;23(5):336-43. doi: 10.1097/CEJ.0000000000000058.

MMP3 and CXCL1 are potent stromal protein markers of dysplasia-carcinoma
transition in sporadic colorectal cancer.

Sipos F(1), Germann TM, Wichmann B, Galamb O, Spisák S, Krenács T, Tulassay Z,
Molnár B, Műzes G.

Author information: 
(1)a2nd Department of Internal Medicine bFaculty of Medicine, Department of
Medicine c1st Department of Pathology and Experimental Cancer Research,
Semmelweis University dMolecular Medicine Research Unit, Hungarian Academy of
Sciences, Budapest, Hungary.

Early molecular detection of the colorectal dysplasia-carcinoma transition may
augment the accuracy of diagnosis in case of biopsy orientation errors. The
combination of high-throughput microarray-based biomarker screening with tissue
microarray-based prospective protein biomarker expression analysis could
represent an additional test in routine automated diagnostic procedures. Our aim 
was to test and select protein markers to identify protein expression profile
alterations, focusing on the dysplasia-carcinoma transition in sporadic
colorectal tumors. Dysplasia-carcinoma transition-specific transcript sets were
previously identified using HGU133plus2 microarrays and Taqman RT-PCR cards.
Here, 26 potential dysplasia-carcinoma transition-specific markers were tested by
immunohistochemistry at the protein level using tissue microarrays in a total of 
168 independent colonic biopsy samples. A set of 26 transcripts [including matrix
metalloproteinase-3 (MMP3) and chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 1 (CXCL1)] has been
determined recently, indicating a linear expression correlation with the
adenoma-dysplasia-carcinoma sequence, thereby having the potential to
discriminate between dysplasia and early malignancy. Currently, we find that
high-grade dysplastic sessile adenomatous-stage and early-stage colorectal cancer
conditions can be differentiated correctly by the stromal expression of MMP3 and 
CXCL1, respectively, on tissue microarray-based analysis. Furthermore, in cases
of sporadic colorectal tumors, MMP3 protein expression in the lamina propria
itself seems to be highly specific for the detection of tumorous transition. Our 
current and recent results indicate that appropriate antibody marker combinations
are highly suitable for tissue microarray-based and digital microscopy-based,
automated, high-capacity diagnostic application in tumorous colonic diseases.

DOI: 10.1097/CEJ.0000000000000058 
PMID: 24999605  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. BMC Genomics. 2014 Jul 5;15:565. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-15-565.

Highly sensitive amplicon-based transcript quantification by semiconductor
sequencing.

Zhang JD, Schindler T, Küng E, Ebeling M, Certa U(1).

Author information: 
(1)Roche Pharmaceutical Research and Early Development, Department of
Pharmaceutical Sciences/ Translational Technologies and Bioinformatics, Roche
Innovation Center Basel, Grenzacherstrasse 124, 4070 Basel, Switzerland.
ulrich.certa@roche.com.

BACKGROUND: In clinical and basic research custom panels for transcript profiling
are gaining importance because only project specific informative genes are
interrogated. This approach reduces costs and complexity of data analysis and
allows multiplexing of samples. Polymerase-chain-reaction (PCR) based TaqMan
assays have high sensitivity but suffer from a limited dynamic range and sample
throughput. Hence, there is a gap for a technology able to measure expression of 
large gene sets in multiple samples.
RESULTS: We have adapted a commercially available mRNA quantification assay
(AmpliSeq-RNA) that measures mRNA abundance based on the frequency of PCR
amplicons determined by high-throughput semiconductor sequencing. This approach
allows for parallel, accurate quantification of about 1000 transcripts in
multiple samples covering a dynamic range of five orders of magnitude. Using
samples derived from a well-characterized stem cell differentiation model, we
obtained a good correlation (r = 0.78) of transcript levels measured by
AmpliSeq-RNA and DNA-microarrays. A significant portion of low abundant
transcripts escapes detection by microarrays due to limited sensitivity. Standard
quantitative RNA sequencing of the same samples confirms expression of low
abundant genes with an overall correlation coefficient of r = 0.87. Based on
digital AmpliSeq-RNA imaging we show switches of signaling cascades at four time 
points during differentiation of stem cells into cardiomyocytes.
CONCLUSIONS: The AmpliSeq-RNA technology adapted to high-throughput semiconductor
sequencing allows robust transcript quantification based on amplicon frequency.
Multiplexing of at least 900 parallel PCR reactions is feasible because
sequencing-based quantification eliminates artefacts coming from off-target
amplification. Using this approach, RNA quantification and detection of genetic
variations can be performed in the same experiment.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-15-565 
PMCID: PMC4101174
PMID: 24997760  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. J Clin Microbiol. 2014 Sep;52(9):3497-8. doi: 10.1128/JCM.01306-14. Epub 2014 Jul
2.

Could droplet digital PCR be used instead of real-time PCR for quantitative
detection of the hepatitis B virus genome in plasma?

Boizeau L(1), Laperche S(1), Désiré N(2), Jourdain C(1), Thibault V(2),
Servant-Delmas A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Transfusion Sanguine (INTS), Département d'Études des 
Agents Transmissibles par le Sang, Centre National de RéfÉrence des HÉpatites
Virales B et C et du VIH en Transfusion, Paris, France. (2)Laboratoire de
Virologie, GH Pitié-Salpêtrière, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Paris,
France. (3)Institut National de la Transfusion Sanguine (INTS), Département
d'Études des Agents Transmissibles par le Sang, Centre National de RéfÉrence des 
HÉpatites Virales B et C et du VIH en Transfusion, Paris, France
aservant@ints.fr.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.01306-14 
PMCID: PMC4313197
PMID: 24989610  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. PLoS One. 2014 Jul 2;9(7):e101500. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0101500. eCollection
2014.

Quantification of cell-free DNA in normal and complicated pregnancies: overcoming
biological and technical issues.

Manokhina I(1), Singh TK(1), Peñaherrera MS(1), Robinson WP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
British Columbia, Canada; Child & Family Research Institute, Vancouver, British
Columbia, Canada.

The characterization of cell-free DNA (cfDNA) originating from placental
trophoblast in maternal plasma provides a powerful tool for non-invasive
diagnosis of fetal and obstetrical complications. Due to its placental origin,
the specific epigenetic features of this DNA (commonly known as cell-free fetal
DNA) can be utilized in creating universal 'fetal' markers in maternal plasma,
thus overcoming the limitations of gender- or rhesus-specific ones. The goal of
this study was to compare the performance of relevant approaches and assays
evaluating the amount of cfDNA in maternal plasma throughout gestation (7.2-39.5 
weeks). Two fetal- or placental-specific duplex assays (RPP30/SRY and
RASSF1A/β-Actin) were applied using two technologies, real-time quantitative PCR 
(qPCR) and droplet digital PCR (ddPCR). Both methods revealed similar performance
parameters within the studied dynamic range. Data obtained using qPCR and ddPCR
for these assays were positively correlated (total cfDNA (RPP30): R = 0.57,
p = 0.001/placental cfDNA (SRY): R = 0.85, p<0.0001; placental cfDNA (RASSF1A):
R = 0.75, p<0.0001). There was a significant correlation in SRY and RASSF1A
results measured with qPCR (R = 0.68, p = 0.013) and ddPCR (R = 0.56, p = 0.039).
Different approaches also gave comparable results with regard to the correlation 
of the placental cfDNA concentration with gestational age and pathological
outcome. We conclude that ddPCR is a practical approach, adaptable to existing
qPCR assays and well suited for analysis of cell-free DNA in plasma. However, it 
may need further optimization to surpass the performance of qPCR.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0101500 
PMCID: PMC4079713
PMID: 24987984  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2014 Jul 1;55(7):4613-27. doi: 10.1167/iovs.14-14633.

Mitochondrial oxidative stress in the retinal pigment epithelium leads to
localized retinal degeneration.

Mao H(1), Seo SJ(1), Biswal MR(1), Li H(1), Conners M(1), Nandyala A(1), Jones
K(1), Le YZ(2), Lewin AS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology, College of Medicine,
University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida, United States. (2)Departments of
Medicine, Endocrinology, and Cell Biology and Harold Hamm Diabetes Center,
University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, United
States.

PURPOSE: Oxidative stress in the RPE is widely accepted as a contributing factor 
to AMD. We have previously shown that ribozyme-mediated reduction in the
antioxidant enzyme manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) leads to some of the
features of geographic atrophy in mice. To develop a mouse model independent of
viral injection, we used a conditional knockout of the Sod2 gene in the RPE to
elevate mitochondrial oxidative stress in that cell layer.
METHODS: Experimental mice in which exon 3 of Sod2 was flanked by loxP sites were
also transgenic for PVMD2-rtTA and tetO-PhCMV cre, so that cre recombinase was
expressed only in the RPE. Pups of this genotype (Sod2(flox/flox)VMD2cre) were
induced to express cre recombinase by feeding doxycycline-laced chow to nursing
dams. Controls included mice of this genotype not treated with doxycycline and
doxycycline-treated Sod2(flox/flox) mice lacking the cre transgene. Expression of
cre in the RPE was verified by immunohistochemistry, and deletion of Sod2 exon 3 
in the RPE was confirmed by PCR. Mice were followed up over a period of 9 months 
by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT), digital fundus imaging,
and full-field ERG. Following euthanasia, retinas were examined by light and
electron microscopy or by immunohistochemistry. Contour length of rod outer
segments and thickness of the RPE layer were measured by unbiased stereology.
RESULTS: Following doxycycline induction of cre, Sod2(flox/flox) cre mice
demonstrated increased signs of oxidative stress in the RPE and accumulation of
autofluorescent material by age 2 months. They showed a gradual decline in the
ERG response and thinning of the outer nuclear layer (by SD-OCT), which were
statistically significant by 6 months. In addition, OCT and electron microscopy
revealed increased porosity of the choroid. At the same interval, hypopigmented
foci appeared in fundus micrographs, and vascular abnormalities were detected by 
fluorescein angiography. By 9 months, the RPE layer in Sod2(flox/flox) cre mice
was thicker than in nontransgenic littermates, and the rod outer segments were
significantly longer over most of the retina, although localized atrophy of
photoreceptors was also obvious in some eyes.
CONCLUSIONS: Conditional tissue-specific reduction in MnSOD induced oxidative
stress in mouse RPE, leading to RPE dysfunction, damage to the choroid, and death
of photoreceptor cells. The RPE oxidative stress did not cause drusen-like
deposits, but the model recapitulated certain key aspects of the pathology of dry
AMD and may be useful in testing therapies.

Copyright 2014 The Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.14-14633 
PMCID: PMC4112607
PMID: 24985474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Wei Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2014 Mar 4;54(3):309-18.

[Effects of transgenic Bt + CpTI cotton on rhizosphere bacteria and ammonia
oxidizing bacteria population].

[Article in Chinese]

Dong L, Meng Y, Wang J.

The effect of transgenic cotton on the rhizosphere bacteria can be important to
the risk assessment for the genetically modified crops.OBJECTIVE: We studied the 
rhizosphere microbial community with cultivating genetically modified cotton.
METHODS: The effects of transgenic Bt + CpTI Cotton (SGK321) and its receptor
cotton (SY321) on rhizosphere total bacteria and ammonia oxidizing bacteria
population size were studied by using droplet digital PCR. We collected
rhizosphere soil before cotton planting and along with the cotton growth stage
(squaring stage, flowering stage, belling stage and boll opening stage).
RESULTS: There was no significant change on the total bacterial population
between the transgenic cotton and the receptor cotton along with the growth
stage. However, the abundance of ammonia oxidizing bacteria (AOB) in both type of
cottons showed significant difference between different growth stages, and the
variation tendency was different. In squaring stage, the numbers of AOB in
rhizosphere of SY321 and SGK321 increased 4 and 2 times, respectively. In
flowering stage, AOB number in rhizosphere of SY321 significantly decreased to be
5.96 x 10(5) copies/g dry soil, however, that of SGK321 increased to be 1.25 x
10(6) copies/g dry soil. In belling stage, AOB number of SY321 greatly increased 
to be 1.49 x 10(6) copies/g dry soil, but no significant change was observed for 
AOB number of SGK321. In boll opening stage, both AOB number of SY321 and SGK321 
clearly decreased and they were significantly different from each other. Compared
to the non-genetically modified cotton, the change in abundance of ammonia
oxidizing bacteria was slightly smooth in the transgenic cotton.
CONCLUSIONS: Not only the cotton growth stage but also the cotton type caused
this difference. The transgenic cotton can slow down the speed of ammonia
transformation through impacting the number of AOB, which is advantageous for
plant growth.


PMID: 24984523  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Exp Eye Res. 2014 Aug;125:173-82. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2014.06.014. Epub 2014 Jun 
24.

Assessment of anti-scarring therapies in ex vivo organ cultured rabbit corneas.

Sriram S(1), Gibson DJ(2), Robinson P(3), Pi L(3), Tuli S(4), Lewin AS(5),
Schultz G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Schepens Eye Research Institute, Harvard Medical School, University of
Florida, USA. Electronic address: sriniwas_sriram@meei.harvard.edu. (2)Institute 
for Wound Research, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of
Florida, USA. (3)Department of Pediatrics, University of Florida, USA.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Florida, USA. (5)Department of
Molecular Genetics and Microbiology, University of Florida, USA.

The effects of a triple combination of siRNAs targeting key scarring genes were
assessed using an ex vivo organ culture model of excimer ablated rabbit corneas. 
The central 6 mm diameter region of fresh rabbit globes was ablated to a depth of
155 microns with an excimer laser. Corneas were excised, cultured at the
air-liquid interface in defined culture medium supplemented with transforming
growth factor beta 1 (TGFB1), and treated with either 1% prednisolone acetate or 
with 22.5 μM cationic nanoparticles complexed with a triple combination of siRNAs
(NP-siRNA) targeting TGFB1, TGFB Receptor (TGFBR2) and connective tissue growth
factor (CTGF). Scar formation was measured using image analysis of digital images
and levels of smooth muscle actin (SMA) were assessed in ablated region of
corneas using qRT-PCR and immunostaining. Ex vivo cultured corneas developed
intense haze-like scar in the wounded areas and levels of mRNAs for pro-fibrotic 
genes were significantly elevated 3-8 fold in wounded tissue compared to
unablated corneas. Treatment with NP-siRNA or steroid significantly reduced
quantitative haze levels by 55% and 68%, respectively, and reduced SMA mRNA and
immunohistostaining. This ex vivo corneal culture system reproduced key molecular
patterns of corneal scarring and haze formation generated in rabbits. Treatment
with NP-siRNAs targeting key scarring genes or an anti-inflammatory steroid
reduced corneal haze and SMA mRNA and protein.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2014.06.014 
PMCID: PMC4496961
PMID: 24971495  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 27;9(6):e101062. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0101062.
eCollection 2014.

Molecular mechanisms of reduced nerve toxicity by titanium dioxide nanoparticles 
in the phoxim-exposed brain of Bombyx mori.

Xie Y(1), Wang B(1), Li F(1), Ma L(1), Ni M(1), Shen W(1), Hong F(2), Li B(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Basic Medicine and Biological Sciences, Soochow University, Suzhou, 
Jiangsu, P.R. China; National Engineering Laboratory for Modern Silk, Soochow
University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, P.R. China. (2)School of Basic Medicine and
Biological Sciences, Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, P.R. China.

Bombyx mori (B. mori), silkworm, is one of the most important economic insects in
the world, while phoxim, an organophosphorus (OP) pesticide, impact its economic 
benefits seriously. Phoxim exposure can damage the brain, fatbody, midgut and
haemolymph of B. mori. However the metabolism of proteins and carbohydrates in
phoxim-exposed B. mori can be improved by Titanium dioxide nanoparticles (TiO2
NPs). In this study, we explored whether TiO2 NPs treatment can reduce the
phoxim-induced brain damage of the 5th larval instar of B. mori. We observed that
TiO2 NPs pretreatments significantly reduced the mortality of phoxim-exposed
larva and relieved severe brain damage and oxidative stress under phoxim exposure
in the brain. The treatments also relieved the phoxim-induced increases in the
contents of acetylcholine (Ach), glutamate (Glu) and nitric oxide (NO) and the
phoxim-induced decreases in the contents of norepinephrine (NE), Dopamine (DA),
and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), and reduced the inhibition of
acetylcholinesterase (AChE), Na+/K+-ATPase, Ca2+-ATPase, and Ca2+/Mg2+-ATPase
activities and the activation of total nitric oxide synthase (TNOS) in the brain.
Furthermore, digital gene expression profile (DGE) analysis and real time
quantitative PCR (qRT-PCR) assay revealed that TiO2 NPs pretreatment inhibited
the up-regulated expression of ace1, cytochrome c, caspase-9, caspase-3, Bm109
and down-regulated expression of BmIap caused by phoxim; these genes are involved
in nerve conduction, oxidative stress and apoptosis. TiO2 NPs pretreatment also
inhibited the down-regulated expression of H+ transporting ATP synthase and
vacuolar ATP synthase under phoxim exposure, which are involved in ion transport 
and energy metabolism. These results indicate that TiO2 NPs pretreatment reduced 
the phoxim-induced nerve toxicity in the brain of B. mori.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0101062 
PMCID: PMC4074129
PMID: 24971466  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 25;9(6):e100919. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0100919.
eCollection 2014.

Transcriptome analysis by Illumina high-throughout paired-end sequencing reveals 
the complexity of differential gene expression during in vitro plantlet growth
and flowering in Amaranthus tricolor L.

Liu S(1), Kuang H(1), Lai Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Horticultural Biotechnology, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry
University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China.

Amaranthus tricolor L. is a C4 plant, which is consumed as a major leafy
vegetable in some tropical countries. Under conditions of high temperature and
short daylight, Am. tricolor readily bolts and blooms, degrading leaf quality. A 
preliminary in vitro flowering study demonstrated that the flowering control
pathway in Am. tricolor may differ from that of Arabidopsis. Nevertheless, no
transcriptome analysis of the flowering process in Amaranthus has been conducted.
To study Am. tricolor floral regulatory mechanisms, we conducted a large-scale
transcriptome analysis--based on Illumina HiSeq sequencing of cDNA libraries
generated from Am. tricolor at young seedling (YSS), adult seedling (ASS), flower
bud (FBS), and flowering (FS) stages. A total of 99,312 unigenes were obtained.
Using BLASTX, 43,088 unigenes (43.39%) were found to have significant similarity 
with accessions in Nr, Nt, and Swiss-Prot databases. Of these unigenes, 11,291
were mapped to 266 KEGG pathways. Further analysis of the four digital
transcriptomes revealed that 735, 17,184, 274, and 206 unigenes were specifically
expressed during YSS, ASS, FBS, and FS, respectively, with 59,517 unigenes
expressed throughout the four stages. These unigenes were involved in many
metabolic pathways related to in vitro flowering. Among these pathways, 259
unigenes were associated with ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis, indicating its
importance for in vitro flowering in Am. tricolor. Other pathways, such as
circadian rhythm and cell cycle, also had important roles. Finally, 26 unigenes
were validated by qRT-PCR in samples from Am. tricolor at YSS, ASS, FBS, and FS; 
their differential expressions at the various stages indicate their possible
roles in Am. tricolor growth and development, but the results were somewhat
similar to Arabidopsis. Because unigenes involved in many metabolic pathways or
of unknown function were revealed to regulate in vitro plantlet growth and
flowering in Am. tricolor, the process appears to be highly complex in this
species.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0100919 
PMCID: PMC4071066
PMID: 24963660  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Int J Lab Hematol. 2015 Apr;37(2):217-24. doi: 10.1111/ijlh.12269. Epub 2014 Jun 
25.

Accurate quantitation of JAK2 V617F allele burden by array-based digital PCR.

Kinz E(1), Leiherer A, Lang AH, Drexel H, Muendlein A.

Author information: 
(1)Vorarlberg Institute for Vascular Investigation and Treatment (VIVIT),
Feldkirch, Austria; Private University of the Principality of Liechtenstein,
Triesen, Liechtenstein.

INTRODUCTION: The JAK2 V617F mutation is highly prevalent in patients with
myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN). Several studies have shown that allele burden
correlates with hematologic characteristics and clinical end-points in patients
with MPN. Allele-specific real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction
(RQ-PCR) is probably the most commonly used technique for detection and
quantitation of the JAK2 V617F mutation. Alternatively, digital PCR is an
emerging technology for absolute DNA quantitation, which is based on dilution and
high-grade partitioning of a sample.
METHODS: We compared array-based digital PCR using the QuantStudio(™) 3D Digital 
PCR System platform with a RQ-PCR assay, CE-registered for in vitro diagnostic
use, regarding JAK2 V617F allele quantitation. This study included 30 samples
positive for the JAK2 V617F mutation and additionally 13 samples without the
mutation.
RESULTS: JAK2 V617F allele burden of samples ranged between well below 1% and
more than 90%. Linear regression analysis showed a high correlation between the
results obtained from the two techniques (r(2) = 0.9983). Thirteen samples tested
negatively for the JAK2 V617F mutation with RQ-PCR were also found negative with 
digital PCR.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that array-based digital PCR is an appropriate method for
the quantitation of JAK2 V617F allele burden demonstrating highest correlation
with allele-specific RQ-PCR.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ijlh.12269 
PMID: 24963593  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 24;9(6):e100946. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0100946.
eCollection 2014.

De novo sequencing-based transcriptome and digital gene expression analysis
reveals insecticide resistance-relevant genes in Propylaea japonica (Thunberg)
(Coleoptea: Coccinellidae).

Tang LD(1), Wang XM(2), Jin FL(2), Qiu BL(2), Wu JH(2), Ren SX(2).

Author information: 
(1)Engineering Research Center of Biological Control, Ministry of Education,
College of Natural Resource and Environment, South China Agricultural University,
Guangzhou, China; Environment and Plant Protection Institute, Chinese Academy of 
Tropical Agriculture, Haikou, China. (2)Engineering Research Center of Biological
Control, Ministry of Education, College of Natural Resource and Environment,
South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou, China.

The ladybird Propylaea japonica (Thunberg) is one of most important natural
enemies of aphids in China. This species is threatened by the extensive use of
insecticides but genomics-based information on the molecular mechanisms
underlying insecticide resistance is limited. Hence, we analyzed the
transcriptome and expression profile data of P. japonica in order to gain a
deeper understanding of insecticide resistance in ladybirds. We performed de novo
assembly of a transcriptome using Illumina's Solexa sequencing technology and
short reads. A total of 27,243,552 reads were generated. These were assembled
into 81,458 contigs and 33,647 unigenes (6,862 clusters and 26,785 singletons).
Of the unigenes, 23,965 (71.22%) have putative homologues in the non-redundant
(nr) protein database from NCBI, using BLASTX, with a cut-off E-value of 10(-5). 
We examined COG, GO and KEGG annotations to better understand the functions of
these unigenes. Digital gene expression (DGE) libraries showed differences in
gene expression profiles between two insecticide resistant strains. When compared
with an insecticide susceptible profile, a total of 4,692 genes were
significantly up- or down- regulated in a moderately resistant strain. Among
these genes, 125 putative insecticide resistance genes were identified. To
confirm the DGE results, 16 selected genes were validated using quantitative real
time PCR (qRT-PCR). This study is the first to report genetic information on P.
japonica and has greatly enriched the sequence data for ladybirds. The large
number of gene sequences produced from the transcriptome and DGE sequencing will 
greatly improve our understanding of this important insect, at the molecular
level, and could contribute to the in-depth research into insecticide resistance 
mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0100946 
PMCID: PMC4069172
PMID: 24959827  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Front Microbiol. 2014 Jun 10;5:276. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2014.00276. eCollection
2014.

Carbadox has both temporary and lasting effects on the swine gut microbiota.

Looft T(1), Allen HK(1), Casey TA(1), Alt DP(1), Stanton TB(1).

Author information: 
(1)United States Department of Agriculture, National Animal Disease Center,
Agricultural Research Service Ames, IA, USA.

Antibiotics are used in livestock and poultry production to treat and prevent
disease as well as to promote animal growth. Carbadox is an in-feed antibiotic
that is widely used in swine production to prevent dysentery and to improve feed 
efficiency. The goal of this study was to characterize the effects of carbadox
and its withdrawal on the swine gut microbiota. Six pigs (initially 3-weeks old) 
received feed containing carbadox and six received unamended feed. After 3-weeks 
of continuous carbadox administration, all pigs were switched to a maintenance
diet without carbadox. DNA was extracted from feces (n = 142) taken before,
during, and following (6-week withdrawal) carbadox treatment. Phylotype analysis 
using 16S rRNA sequences showed the gradual development of the non-medicated
swine gut microbiota over the 8-week study, and that the carbadox-treated pigs
had significant differences in bacterial membership relative to non-medicated
pigs. Enumeration of fecal Escherichia coli showed that a diet change concurrent 
with carbadox withdrawal was associated with an increase in the E. coli in the
non-medicated pigs, suggesting that carbadox pre-treatment prevented an increase 
of E. coli populations. In-feed carbadox caused striking effects within 4 days of
administration, with significant alterations in both community structure and
bacterial membership, notably a large relative increase in Prevotella populations
in medicated pigs. Digital PCR was used to show that the absolute abundance of
Prevotella was unchanged between the medicated and non-medicated pigs despite the
relative increase shown in the phylotype analysis. Carbadox therefore caused a
decrease in the abundance of other gut bacteria but did not affect the absolute
abundance of Prevotella. The pending regulation on antibiotics used in animal
production underscores the importance of understanding how they modulate the
microbiota and impact animal health, which will inform the search for antibiotic 
alternatives.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2014.00276 
PMCID: PMC4050737
PMID: 24959163 


947. Integr Biol (Camb). 2014 Aug;6(8):796-805. doi: 10.1039/c4ib00109e.

Individually addressable arrays of replica microbial cultures enabled by
splitting SlipChips.

Ma L(1), Datta SS, Karymov MA, Pan Q, Begolo S, Ismagilov RF.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, California Institute of
Technology, 1200 E. California Blvd., Pasadena, California 91125, USA.
rustem.admin@caltech.edu.

Isolating microbes carrying genes of interest from environmental samples is
important for applications in biology and medicine. However, this involves the
use of genetic assays that often require lysis of microbial cells, which is not
compatible with the goal of obtaining live cells for isolation and culture. This 
paper describes the design, fabrication, biological validation, and underlying
physics of a microfluidic SlipChip device that addresses this challenge. The
device is composed of two conjoined plates containing 1000 microcompartments,
each comprising two juxtaposed wells, one on each opposing plate. Single
microbial cells are stochastically confined and subsequently cultured within the 
microcompartments. Then, we split each microcompartment into two replica
droplets, both containing microbial culture, and then controllably separate the
two plates while retaining each droplet within each well. We experimentally
describe the droplet retention as a function of capillary pressure, viscous
pressure, and viscosity of the aqueous phase. Within each pair of replicas, one
can be used for genetic analysis, and the other preserves live cells for growth. 
This microfluidic approach provides a facile way to cultivate anaerobes from
complex communities. We validate this method by targeting, isolating, and
culturing Bacteroides vulgatus, a core gut anaerobe, from a clinical sample. To
date, this methodology has enabled isolation of a novel microbial taxon,
representing a new genus. This approach could also be extended to the study of
other microorganisms and even mammalian systems, and may enable targeted
retrieval of solutions in applications including digital PCR, sequencing, single 
cell analysis, and protein crystallization.

DOI: 10.1039/c4ib00109e 
PMCID: PMC4131746
PMID: 24953827  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Environ Microbiol. 2014 Oct;16(10):3250-62. doi: 10.1111/1462-2920.12543. Epub
2014 Jul 15.

The nitrogen cycle in cryoconites: naturally occurring
nitrification-denitrification granules on a glacier.

Segawa T(1), Ishii S, Ohte N, Akiyoshi A, Yamada A, Maruyama F, Li Z, Hongoh Y,
Takeuchi N.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Polar Research, Tokyo, Japan; Transdisciplinary Research
Integration Center, Tokyo, Japan.

Cryoconites are microbial aggregates commonly found on glacier surfaces where
they tend to take spherical, granular forms. While it has been postulated that
the microbes in cryoconite granules play an important role in glacier ecosystems,
information on their community structure is still limited, and their functions
remain unclear. Here, we present evidence for the occurrence of nitrogen cycling 
in cryoconite granules on a glacier in Central Asia. We detected marker genes for
nitrogen fixation, nitrification and denitrification in cryoconite granules by
digital polymerase chain reaction (PCR), while digital reverse transcription PCR 
analysis revealed that only marker genes for nitrification and denitrification
were abundantly transcribed. Analysis of isotope ratios also indicated the
occurrence of nitrification; nitrate in the meltwater on the glacier surface was 
of biological origin, while nitrate in the snow was of atmospheric origin. The
predominant nitrifiers on this glacier belonged to the order Nitrosomonadales, as
suggested by amoA sequences and 16S ribosomal RNA pyrosequencing analysis. Our
results suggest that the intense carbon and nitrogen cycles by nitrifiers,
denitrifiers and cyanobacteria support abundant and active microbes on the Asian 
glacier.

© 2014 Society for Applied Microbiology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1462-2920.12543 
PMID: 24946985  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Anal Chem. 2014 Jul 15;86(14):6968-75. doi: 10.1021/ac500897t. Epub 2014 Jun 27.

Electrical detection of nucleic acid amplification using an on-chip
quasi-reference electrode and a PVC REFET.

Salm E(1), Zhong Y, Reddy B Jr, Duarte-Guevara C, Swaminathan V, Liu YS, Bashir
R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign ,
Urbana, Illinois 61801, United States.

Electrical detection of nucleic acid amplification through pH changes associated 
with nucleotide addition enables miniaturization, greater portability of testing 
apparatus, and reduced costs. However, current ion-sensitive field effect
transistor methods for sensing nucleic acid amplification rely on establishing
the fluid gate potential with a bulky, difficult to microfabricate reference
electrode that limits the potential for massively parallel reaction detection.
Here we demonstrate a novel method of utilizing a microfabricated solid-state
quasi-reference electrode (QRE) paired with a pH-insensitive reference field
effect transistor (REFET) for detection of real-time pH changes. The end result
is a 0.18 μm, silicon-on-insulator, foundry-fabricated sensor that utilizes a
platinum QRE to establish a pH-sensitive fluid gate potential and a PVC membrane 
REFET to enable pH detection of loop mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP).
This technique is highly amendable to commercial scale-up, reduces the packaging 
and fabrication requirements for ISFET pH detection, and enables massively
parallel droplet interrogation for applications, such as monitoring reaction
progression in digital PCR.

DOI: 10.1021/ac500897t 
PMCID: PMC4215847
PMID: 24940939  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Oncol Lett. 2014 Jun;7(6):2192-2198. Epub 2014 Apr 8.

A rapid nested polymerase chain reaction method to detect circulating cancer
cells in breast cancer patients using multiple marker genes.

Liu L(1), Ma C(2), Xu Q(3), Cheng L(1), Xiao L(1), Xu D(1), Gao Y(1), Wang J(1), 
Song H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Basic Medical Institute, Chengde Medical College,
Chengde, Hebei 067000, P.R. China. (2)Clinical Skills Center, Chengde Medical
College, Chengde, Hebei 067000, P.R. China. (3)Department of Central Laboratory, 
Basic Medical Institute, Chengde Medical College, Chengde, Hebei 067000, P.R.
China.

The aim of the present study was to develop a simple and rapid method for the
detection of circulating cancer cells using multiple tumor markers and to
investigate the clinical significance of circulating cancer cells in breast
cancer patients. A novel rapid nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay, with
high sensitivity and specificity, was evaluated, which was considered to be
suitable for clinical application. The rapid nested PCR method was used to detect
the circulating cancer cells of 142 breast cancer patients, using a panel of
marker genes (FAM83A, NPY1R and KRT19), which were identified by the Digital Gene
Expression Displayer Tool of the National Cancer Institute-Cancer Genome Anatomy 
Project. In total, 79.6% of the 142 breast cancer patient blood samples were
found to express at least one tumor marker. In addition, the number of positive
markers was found to significantly correlate with the disease stage and presence 
of distant metastasis. Furthermore, positivity for more than one tumor marker
appeared to predict a reduced survival time in breast cancer patients.

DOI: 10.3892/ol.2014.2048 
PMCID: PMC4049700
PMID: 24932314 


951. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2014 Apr;50(4):285-9.

[Inhibited experimental mouse corneal neovascularization by CCR3 antagonist].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu G(1), He X(1), Zhou W(1), Xiao Y(1), Chen Z(1), Lu P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow
University, Suzhou 215006, China. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, the First
Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, Suzhou 215006, China. Email:
lupeirong@yahoo.com.hk.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the effect of CCR3 antagonist on the development of
experimental corneal neovascularization.
METHODS: Mouse corneas were burned by NaOH to induce corneal
neovascularization.Fifty four clean male BABL/c mice aged 7-8 weeks were divided 
into control group, CCR3 antagonist group and VEGF antibody positive group
according to randomized number table. The gene expression of CCR3 and its ligand 
eotaxin in burned corneas was examined by Real-time PCR. CCR3 antagonist was
locally administrated after alkali injury and the formation of corneal
neovascular 2 weeks after injury was examined using a digital camera linked to a 
slit lamp microscope and corneal whole mount staining with CD31. The mRNA and
protein expression of chemokines in burned corneas was detected by Real-time PCR 
and western blot.
RESULTS: Compared to control group, CCR3 antagonist treated mice resulted in
significantly decreased corneal neovascularization. The related CNV area was 0.51
± 0.03 in the CCR3 antagonist group, and that in the control group was 0.77 ±
0.15, with significant difference between them (t = 12.91, P = 0.00).Western blot
detection did not show significant difference of VEGF protein expression between 
two groups.Expression level of VEGF in the CCR3 antagonist group was 0.91 ± 0.24,
and that in the control group was 1.15 ± 0.30, showing no significant difference 
(t = 1.08, P = 0.34).
CONCLUSIONS: Alkali-induced corneal neovascularization was inhibited by CCR3
antagonist. The mechanism that CCR3 pathway plays an important role in corneal
neovascularization needs further exploration.


PMID: 24931155  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Gene. 2014 Aug 10;546(2):177-86. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2014.06.021. Epub 2014 Jun
11.

Screening and identification of soybean seed-specific genes by using integrated
bioinformatics of digital differential display, microarray, and RNA-seq data.

Yin G(1), Xu H(2), Liu J(3), Gao C(4), Sun J(5), Yan Y(6), Hu Y(7).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Sciences, Capital Normal University, Beijing 100048, China.
Electronic address: yinguangjundejia@gmail.com. (2)Biochemistry, Molecular
Biology & Biophysics, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA.
Electronic address: xuxxx812@umn.edu. (3)College of Life Sciences, Capital Normal
University, Beijing 100048, China. Electronic address: liujingyi627@163.com.
(4)College of Life Sciences, Capital Normal University, Beijing 100048, China.
Electronic address: wangclx@163.com. (5)Plant Biotechnology Institute, National
Research Council Canada, Saskatoon S7N 0W9, Canada. Electronic address:
Jinyue.Sun@nrc-cnrc.gc.ca. (6)College of Life Sciences, Capital Normal
University, Beijing 100048, China. Electronic address: yanym2004@163.com.
(7)College of Life Sciences, Capital Normal University, Beijing 100048, China.
Electronic address: yingkaohu@yahoo.com.

Soybean is one of the most economically important crops in the world. Soybean
seeds have abundant protein and lipid content and very high economic value. In
this study, a total of 184 seed-specific genes were obtained using online
microarray databases, DDD, and RNA-seq data. The reported seed-specific genes in 
soybean and the 184 seed-specific genes analyzed in this paper were compared. Of 
the screened genes, 26 were common to both previous reports and the current
screening. Meanwhile, 90 of the 184 genes have homologous counterparts in
Arabidopsis, among which 24 have seed-specific expression, as indicated by
microarray data for Arabidopsis. Furthermore, promoter analysis showed that
almost all seed-specific genes contain at least one seed specific-related
element. Seed-specific element Skn-1 motif exists in most, if not all, of the
seed-specific genes screened. Five genes were randomly selected from 184 soybean 
seed specific gene pool and their expressions were quantified using quantitative 
real time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) to further confirm the specificity 
of the screened genes. The results indicated that all five genes showed
seed-specific expression. Moreover, the identification of genes with
seed-specific expression screened in this study provides information valuable to 
the in-depth study of soybean.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2014.06.021 
PMID: 24929124  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Front Oncol. 2014 Jun 4;4:129. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2014.00129. eCollection 2014.

Analysis of extracellular RNA by digital PCR.

Takahashi K(1), Yan IK(1), Kim C(2), Kim J(2), Patel T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Transplantation and Cancer Biology, Mayo Clinic , Jacksonville, 
FL , USA. (2)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic , Jacksonville, FL , USA.

The transfer of extracellular RNA is emerging as an important mechanism for
inter-cellular communication. The ability for the transfer of functionally active
RNA molecules from one cell to another within vesicles such as exosomes enables a
cell to modulate cellular signaling and biological processes within recipient
cells. The study of extracellular RNA requires sensitive methods for the
detection of these molecules. In this methods article, we will describe protocols
for the detection of such extracellular RNA using sensitive detection
technologies such as digital PCR. These protocols should be valuable to
researchers interested in the role and contribution of extracellular RNA to tumor
cell biology.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2014.00129 
PMCID: PMC4044516
PMID: 24926435 


954. Biotechniques. 2014 Jun 1;56(6):319-25. doi: 10.2144/000114179. eCollection 2014.

Simultaneous quantification of alternatively spliced transcripts in a single
droplet digital PCR reaction.

Sun B(1), Tao L(1), Zheng YL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Prevention and Control Program, Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center,
Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, DC.

Human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) is an essential component required
for telomerase activity and telomere maintenance. Several alternatively spliced
forms of hTERT mRNA have been reported in human primary and tumor cells.
Currently, however, there is no sensitive and accurate method for the
simultaneous quantification of multiple alternatively spliced RNA transcripts,
such as in the case of hTERT. Here we show droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) provides
sensitive, simultaneous digital quantification in a single reaction of two
alternatively spliced single deletion hTERT transcripts (α-/β+ and α+/β-) as well
as the opportunity to manually quantify non-deletion (α+/β+) and double deletion 
(α-/β-) transcripts. Our ddPCR method enables direct comparison among four
alternatively spliced mRNAs without the need for internal standards or multiple
primer pairs specific for each variant as real-time PCR (qPCR) requires, thus
eliminating potential variation due to differences in PCR amplification
efficiency.

DOI: 10.2144/000114179 
PMID: 24924392  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 5;9(6):e98884. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0098884. eCollection 
2014.

Exploring the polyadenylated RNA virome of sweet potato through high-throughput
sequencing.

Gu YH(1), Tao X(2), Lai XJ(1), Wang HY(1), Zhang YZ(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Sciences, Sichuan University, Key Laboratory of Bio-resources 
and Eco-environment, Ministry of Education, Sichuan Key Laboratory of Molecular
Biology and Biotechnology, Center for Functional Genomics and Bioinformatics,
Chengdu, Sichuan, People's Republic of China. (2)Chengdu Institute of Biology,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Chengdu, Sichuan, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: Viral diseases are the second most significant biotic stress for
sweet potato, with yield losses reaching 20% to 40%. Over 30 viruses have been
reported to infect sweet potato around the world, and 11 of these have been
detected in China. Most of these viruses were detected by traditional detection
approaches that show disadvantages in detection throughput. Next-generation
sequencing technology provides a novel, high sensitive method for virus detection
and diagnosis.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We report the polyadenylated RNA virome of three 
sweet potato cultivars using a high throughput RNA sequencing approach.
Transcripts of 15 different viruses were detected, 11 of which were detected in
cultivar Xushu18, whilst 11 and 4 viruses were detected in Guangshu 87 and
Jingshu 6, respectively. Four were detected in sweet potato for the first time,
and 4 were found for the first time in China. The most prevalent virus was SPFMV,
which constituted 88% of the total viral sequence reads. Virus transcripts with
extremely low expression levels were also detected, such as transcripts of SPLCV,
CMV and CymMV. Digital gene expression (DGE) and reverse transcription polymerase
chain reaction (RT-PCR) analyses showed that the highest viral transcript
expression levels were found in fibrous and tuberous roots, which suggest that
these tissues should be optimum samples for virus detection.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: A total of 15 viruses were presumed to present in three
sweet potato cultivars growing in China. This is the first insight into the sweet
potato polyadenylated RNA virome. These results can serve as a basis for further 
work to investigate whether some of the 'new' viruses infecting sweet potato are 
pathogenic.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0098884 
PMCID: PMC4047073
PMID: 24901789  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Lab Chip. 2014 Sep 7;14(17):3225-32. doi: 10.1039/c4lc00248b.

Digital biology and chemistry.

Witters D(1), Sun B, Begolo S, Rodriguez-Manzano J, Robles W, Ismagilov RF.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, California Institute of
Technology, 1200 E. California Blvd., Pasadena, CA 91125, USA.
rustem.admin@caltech.edu.

This account examines developments in "digital" biology and chemistry within the 
context of microfluidics, from a personal perspective. Using microfluidics as a
frame of reference, we identify two areas of research within digital biology and 
chemistry that are of special interest: (i) the study of systems that switch
between discrete states in response to changes in chemical concentration of
signals, and (ii) the study of single biological entities such as molecules or
cells. In particular, microfluidics accelerates analysis of switching systems
(i.e., those that exhibit a sharp change in output over a narrow range of input) 
by enabling monitoring of multiple reactions in parallel over a range of
concentrations of signals. Conversely, such switching systems can be used to
create new kinds of microfluidic detection systems that provide
"analog-to-digital" signal conversion and logic. Microfluidic
compartmentalization technologies for studying and isolating single entities can 
be used to reconstruct and understand cellular processes, study interactions
between single biological entities, and examine the intrinsic heterogeneity of
populations of molecules, cells, or organisms. Furthermore, compartmentalization 
of single cells or molecules in "digital" microfluidic experiments can induce
switching in a range of reaction systems to enable sensitive detection of cells
or biomolecules, such as with digital ELISA or digital PCR. This "digitizing"
offers advantages in terms of robustness, assay design, and simplicity because
quantitative information can be obtained with qualitative measurements. While
digital formats have been shown to improve the robustness of existing
chemistries, we anticipate that in the future they will enable new chemistries to
be used for quantitative measurements, and that digital biology and chemistry
will continue to provide further opportunities for measuring biomolecules,
understanding natural systems more deeply, and advancing molecular and cellular
analysis. Microfluidics will impact digital biology and chemistry and will also
benefit from them if it becomes massively distributed.

DOI: 10.1039/c4lc00248b 
PMID: 24889331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. J Mol Neurosci. 2015 Feb;55(2):367-71. doi: 10.1007/s12031-014-0339-y. Epub 2014 
Jun 4.

Association between dopamine beta-hydroxylase 19-bp insertion/deletion
polymorphism and major depressive disorder.

Zhou Y(1), Wang J, He Y, Zhou J, Xi Q, Song X, Ye Y, Ying B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, West China Hospital, Sichuan University,
610041, Chengdu, Sichuan, People's Republic of China.

Norepinephrine and dopamine mediate important aspects of several psychoses,
including major depressive disorder (MDD). Dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH)
catalyzes the conversion of dopamine to norepinephrine in central neurons and
thus is critically involved in maintaining the transformational homeostasis.
Functional polymorphisms have been reported in DBH gene, including a 19-bp
insertion/deletion polymorphism (DBH5'-insertion/deletion (Ins/Del)) and a single
nucleotide polymorphism (-1021C/T). The purpose of this study was to investigate 
whether there was an association between the two functional polymorphisms and MDD
in a Han Chinese population. DBH5'-Ins/Del and -1021C/T polymorphism in promoter 
region of DBH gene was analyzed in 313 patients with MDD and 318 healthy subjects
by using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and restriction fragment length
polymorphism (RFLP) analysis. The results showed statistically significant
associations for genotypic distribution between the DBH5'-Ins/Del polymorphism
and MDD (P = 0.007). Individuals with Del/Del genotype demonstrated a 1.72 times 
increased risk of MDD compared to those with insertion alleles (95% confidence
interval (CI) 1.20-2.47, P = 0.003). Moreover, the Del/Del genotype was
associated with poorer digital span and language scores than the insertion
alleles in healthy subjects (P = 0.041 and P = 0.048, respectively). However,
there was no association observed between the genotype and allele frequencies for
-1021C/T and depression. Our data suggest that the DBH5'-Ins/Del polymorphism of 
the DBH gene may be associated with susceptibility to MDD in a Chinese
population.

DOI: 10.1007/s12031-014-0339-y 
PMID: 24888991  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Mol Cancer. 2014 May 29;13:130. doi: 10.1186/1476-4598-13-130.

Yin Yang-1 suppresses invasion and metastasis of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma
by downregulating MMP10 in a MUC4/ErbB2/p38/MEF2C-dependent mechanism.

Zhang JJ, Zhu Y, Xie KL, Peng YP, Tao JQ, Tang J, Li Z, Xu ZK, Dai CC, Qian ZY,
Jiang KR, Wu JL, Gao WT, Du Q, Miao Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Surgery, The first Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing
Medical University, Jiangsu Province Academy of Clinical Medicine, Institute of
Tumor Biology, 300 Guangzhou Road, Nanjing 210029, People's Republic of China.
miaoyi@njmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Increasing evidence indicates an important role of transcription
factor Yin Yang-1 (YY1) in human tumorigenesis. However, its function in cancer
remains controversial and the relevance of YY1 to pancreatic ductal
adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remains to be clarified.
METHODS: In this study, we detected YY1 expression in clinical PDAC tissue
samples and cell lines using quantitative RT-PCR, immunohistochemistry and
western blotting. We also detected MUC4 and MMP10 mRNA levels in 108 PDAC samples
using qRT-PCR and analyzed the correlations between YY1 and MUC4 or MMP10
expression. The role of YY1 in the proliferation, invasion and metastatic
abilities of PDAC cells in vitro was studied by CCK-8 assay, cell migration and
invasion assays. In vivo pancreatic tumor growth and metastasis was studied by a 
xenogenous subcutaneously implant model and a tail vein metastasis model. The
potential mechanisms underlying YY1 mediated tumor progression in PDAC were
explored by digital gene expression (DGE) sequencing, signal transduction
pathways blockage experiments and luciferase assays. Statistical analysis was
performed using the SPSS 15.0 software.
RESULTS: We found that the expression of YY1 in PDACs was higher compared with
their adjacent non-tumorous tissues and normal pancreas tissues. However, PDAC
patients with high level overexpression of YY1 had better outcome than those with
low level overexpression. YY1 expression levels were statistically negatively
correlated with MMP10 expression levels, but not correlated with MUC4 expression 
levels. YY1 overexpression suppressed, whereas YY1 knockdown enhanced, the
proliferation, invasion and metastatic properties of BXPC-3 cells, both in vitro 
and in vivo. YY1 suppresses invasion and metastasis of pancreatic cancer cells by
downregulating MMP10 in a MUC4/ErbB2/p38/MEF2C-dependent mechanism.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study suggested that YY1 plays a negative role, i.e. is 
a tumor suppressor, in PDAC, and may become a valuable diagnostic and prognostic 
marker of PDAC.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-4598-13-130 
PMCID: PMC4047260
PMID: 24884523  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. J Clin Microbiol. 2014 Aug;52(8):2844-8. doi: 10.1128/JCM.00803-14. Epub 2014 May
28.

Clinical utility of droplet digital PCR for human cytomegalovirus.

Sedlak RH(1), Cook L(1), Cheng A(2), Magaret A(3), Jerome KR(4).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Virology Laboratory, Department of Laboratory Medicine, University
of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA. (2)Department of Biostatistics,
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA. (3)Molecular Virology
Laboratory, Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington, USA Department of Biostatistics, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington, USA The Vaccine and Infectious Disease Institute, Fred Hutchinson
Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington, USA. (4)Molecular Virology
Laboratory, Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington, USA The Vaccine and Infectious Disease Institute, Fred Hutchinson
Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington, USA kjerome@fhcrc.org.

Human cytomegalovirus (CMV) has historically been the major infectious cause of
morbidity and mortality among patients receiving hematopoietic cell or organ
transplant. Standard care in a transplant setting involves frequent monitoring of
CMV viral load over weeks to months to determine when antiviral treatment may be 
required. Quantitative PCR (qPCR) is the standard molecular diagnostic method for
monitoring. Recently, digital PCR (dPCR) has shown promise in viral diagnostics, 
although current dPCR systems have lower throughput than qPCR systems. Here, we
compare qPCR and droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) for CMV detection in patient plasma 
samples. Droplet digital PCR exhibits increased precision over qPCR at viral
loads of ≥4 log10 with equivalent sensitivity. However, retrospective analysis of
longitudinal samples from transplant patients with CMV viral loads near
therapeutic thresholds did not provide evidence that the improved precision of
ddPCR would be of clinical benefit. Given the throughput advantages of current
qPCR systems, a widespread switch to dPCR for CMV monitoring would appear
premature.

Copyright © 2014, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.00803-14 
PMCID: PMC4136144
PMID: 24871214  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Clin Chim Acta. 2014 Sep 25;436:169-75. doi: 10.1016/j.cca.2014.05.008. Epub 2014
May 24.

Detection of KRAS codon 12 and 13 mutations by mutant-enriched PCR assay.

Chang YS(1), Er TK(2), Lu HC(3), Yeh KT(4), Chang JG(5).

Author information: 
(1)Epigenome Research Center, China Medical University Hospital, Taichung,
Taiwan; Department of Laboratory Medicine, China Medical University Hospital,
Taichung, Taiwan. (2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical
University Hospital, Kaohsiung, Taiwan. (3)Department of Laboratory Medicine,
China Medical University Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan. (4)Department of Pathology, 
Changhua Christian Hospital, Changhua, Taiwan. (5)Epigenome Research Center,
China Medical University Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan; Department of Laboratory
Medicine, China Medical University Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan; College of
Medicine, China Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan. Electronic address:
d6781@mail.cmuh.org.tw.

BACKGROUND: The identification of KRAS mutations before the administration of
anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) therapy of metastatic colorectal
cancer (mCRC) has become important. The aim of the present study was to develop a
novel technology that can increase detection sensitivity for KRAS mutations.
METHODS: DNAs were extracted from colorectal cancer tissues and formalin-fixed,
paraffin-embedded (FFPE) colorectal cancer samples. Mutant-enriched PCR assay
utilizes the exceptionally thermostable endonucleases, PspGI for codon 12 and
PhoI for codon 13, for specific amplifying KRAS mutations from mixed samples. The
amplified PCR products were subjected to single-base primer extension or
sequencing. Digital PCR was used to evaluate some of the results.
RESULTS: We compared the results with that from direct sequencing. In the FFPE
samples, thirteen discordant samples were found. We showed that the
mutant-enriched PCR assay can identify the codons 12 and 13 mutation in a mixed
population of mutant and wild type DNA sequences at 1:1000 and 1:400,
respectively. The sensitivity of this method is lower than the digital PCR.
CONCLUSIONS: We developed a rapid and highly sensitive method to detect codons 12
and 13 mutations of the KRAS gene. This method is a powerful tool for finding
low-abundance variations in genomic DNA.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cca.2014.05.008 
PMID: 24863805  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


961. Nucleic Acids Res. 2014 Jul;42(13):e104. doi: 10.1093/nar/gku439. Epub 2014 May
26.

Quantitative telomerase enzyme activity determination using droplet digital PCR
with single cell resolution.

Ludlow AT(1), Robin JD(1), Sayed M(1), Litterst CM(2), Shelton DN(2), Shay JW(1),
Wright WE(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, UT Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX
75390-9039, USA. (2)Bio-Rad Laboratories, Digital Biology Center, Pleasanton, CA 
94566, USA. (3)Department of Cell Biology, UT Southwestern Medical Center,
Dallas, TX 75390-9039, USA Woodring.Wright@UTSouthwestern.edu.

The telomere repeat amplification protocol (TRAP) for the human reverse
transcriptase, telomerase, is a PCR-based assay developed two decades ago and is 
still used for routine determination of telomerase activity. The TRAP assay can
only reproducibly detect ∼ 2-fold differences and is only quantitative when
compared to internal standards and reference cell lines. The method generally
involves laborious radioactive gel electrophoresis and is not conducive to
high-throughput analyzes. Recently droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) technologies have 
become available that allow for absolute quantification of input deoxyribonucleic
acid molecules following PCR. We describe the reproducibility and provide several
examples of a droplet digital TRAP (ddTRAP) assay for telomerase activity,
including quantitation of telomerase activity in single cells, telomerase
activity across several common telomerase positive cancer cells lines and in
human primary peripheral blood mononuclear cells following mitogen stimulation.
Adaptation of the TRAP assay to digital format allows accurate and reproducible
quantification of the number of telomerase-extended products (i.e. telomerase
activity; 57.8 ± 7.5) in a single HeLa cell. The tools developed in this study
allow changes in telomerase enzyme activity to be monitored on a single cell
basis and may have utility in designing novel therapeutic approaches that target 
telomerase.

© The Author(s) 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic
Acids Research.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gku439 
PMCID: PMC4117742
PMID: 24861623  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. PLoS One. 2014 May 22;9(5):e98341. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0098341. eCollection
2014.

Methods for multiplex template sampling in digital PCR assays.

Petriv OI(1), Heyries KA(1), VanInsberghe M(1), Walker D(1), Hansen CL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for High-Throughput Biology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
British Columbia, Canada. (2)Centre for High-Throughput Biology, University of
British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; Department of Physics and 
Astronomy, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.

The efficient use of digital PCR (dPCR) for precision copy number analysis
requires high concentrations of target molecules that may be difficult or
impossible to obtain from clinical samples. To solve this problem we present a
strategy, called Multiplex Template Sampling (MTS), that effectively increases
template concentrations by detecting multiple regions of fragmented target
molecules. Three alternative assay approaches are presented for implementing MTS 
analysis of chromosome 21, providing a 10-fold concentration enhancement while
preserving assay precision.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0098341 
PMCID: PMC4031183
PMID: 24854517  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2014 Oct;406(26):6499-512. doi: 10.1007/s00216-014-7835-3.
Epub 2014 May 24.

Towards standardisation of cell-free DNA measurement in plasma: controls for
extraction efficiency, fragment size bias and quantification.

Devonshire AS(1), Whale AS, Gutteridge A, Jones G, Cowen S, Foy CA, Huggett JF.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Cell Biology Team, LGC Ltd, Queen's Road, Teddington, TW11 0LY, 
UK, alison.devonshire@lgcgroup.com.

Circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) is becoming an important clinical analyte for
prenatal testing, cancer diagnosis and cancer monitoring. The extraction stage is
critical in ensuring clinical sensitivity of analytical methods measuring
minority nucleic acid fractions, such as foetal-derived sequences in
predominantly maternal cfDNA. Consequently, quality controls are required for
measurement of extraction efficiency, fragment size bias and yield for validation
of cfDNA methods. We evaluated the utility of an external DNA spike for
monitoring these parameters in a study comparing three specific cfDNA extraction 
methods [QIAamp circulating nucleic acid (CNA) kit, NucleoSpin Plasma XS (NS) kit
and FitAmp plasma/serum DNA isolation (FA) kit] with the commonly used QIAamp DNA
blood mini (DBM) kit. We found that the extraction efficiencies of the kits
ranked in the order CNA kit > DBM kit > NS kit > FA kit, and the CNA and NS kits 
gave a better representation of smaller DNA fragments in the extract than the DBM
kit. We investigated means of improved reporting of cfDNA yield by comparing
quantitative PCR measurements of seven different reference gene assays in plasma 
samples and validating these with digital PCR. We noted that the cfDNA quantities
based on measurement of some target genes (e.g. TERT) were, on average, more than
twofold higher than those of other assays (e.g. ERV3). We conclude that analysis 
and averaging of multiple reference genes using a GeNorm approach gives a more
reliable estimate of total cfDNA quantity.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-014-7835-3 
PMCID: PMC4182654
PMID: 24853859  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Anal Chem. 2014 Jun 17;86(12):5969-76. doi: 10.1021/ac501118v. Epub 2014 Jun 3.

Accurate determination of plasmid copy number of flow-sorted cells using droplet 
digital PCR.

Jahn M(1), Vorpahl C, Türkowsky D, Lindmeyer M, Bühler B, Harms H, Müller S.

Author information: 
(1)Helmholtz-Centre for Environmental Research - UFZ, Permoserstr. 15, 04318
Leipzig, Germany.

Many biotechnological processes rely on the expression of a plasmid-based target 
gene. A constant and sufficient number of plasmids per cell is desired for
efficient protein production. To date, only a few methods for the determination
of plasmid copy number (PCN) are available, and most of them average the PCN of
total populations disregarding heterogeneous distributions. Here, we utilize the 
highly precise quantification of DNA molecules by droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) and
combine it with cell sorting using flow cytometry. A duplex PCR assay was set up 
requiring only 1000 sorted cells for precise determination of PCN. The robustness
of this method was proven by thorough optimization of cell sorting, cell
disruption, and PCR conditions. When non plasmid-harboring cells of Pseudomonas
putida KT2440 were spiked with different dilutions of the expression plasmid
pA-EGFP_B, a PCN from 1 to 64 could be accurately detected. As a proof of
principle, induced cultures of P. putida KT2440 producing an EGFP-fused model
protein by means of the plasmid pA-EGFP_B were investigated by flow cytometry and
showed two distinct subpopulations, fluorescent and nonfluorescent cells. These
two subpopulations were sorted for PCN determination with ddPCR. A remarkably
diverging plasmid distribution was found within the population, with
nonfluorescent cells showing a much lower PCN (≤1) than fluorescent cells (PCN of
up to 5) under standard conditions.

DOI: 10.1021/ac501118v 
PMID: 24842041  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2014 Jul;98(13):6105-13. doi:
10.1007/s00253-014-5794-4. Epub 2014 May 16.

Comparison of droplet digital PCR and quantitative real-time PCR for examining
population dynamics of bacteria in soil.

Kim TG(1), Jeong SY, Cho KS.

Author information: 
(1)Global Top5 Research Program, Department of Environmental Science and
Engineering, Ewha Womans University, 11-1 Daehyun-dong, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul,
120-750, Republic of Korea.

The newly developed droplet digital PCR (DD-PCR) has shown promise as a DNA
quantification technology in medical diagnostic fields. This study evaluated the 
applicability of DD-PCR as a quantitative tool for soil DNA using quantitative
real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) as a reference technology. Cupriavidus sp. MBT14 and
Sphingopyxis sp. MD2 were used, and a primer/TaqMan probe set was designed for
each (CupMBT and SphMD2, respectively). Standard curve analyses on tenfold
dilution series showed that both qRT-PCR and DD-PCR exhibited excellent linearity
(R (2) = 1.00) and PCR efficiency (≥92 %) across their detectable ranges.
However, DD-PCR showed a tenfold greater sensitivity than qRT-PCR. MBT14 and MD2 
were added to non-sterile soil at 0 ~ 5 × 10(8) and 0 ~ 5 × 10(7) cells per gram 
of soil, respectively (n = 5). This bacterial load test indicated that DD-PCR was
more sensitive and discriminating than qRT-PCR. For instance, DD-PCR showed a
gradual DNA increase from 14 to 141,160 MBT14 rDNA copies μL DNA extract(-1) as
the bacterial load increased, while qRT-PCR could quantify the DNA (6,432 copies 
μL DNA(-1)) at ≥5 × 10(5) MBT14 per gram of soil. When temporal DNA changes were 
monitored for 3 weeks in the amended soils, the two technologies exhibited nearly
identical changes over time. Linearity tests (y = a · x) revealed excellent
quantitative agreement between the two technologies (a = 0.98, R (2) = 0.97 in
the CupMBT set and a = 0.90, R (2) = 0.94 in the SphMD2 set). These results
suggest that DD-PCR is a promising tool to examine temporal dynamics of
microorganisms in complex environments.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-014-5794-4 
PMID: 24831026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Hum Pathol. 2014 Jul;45(7):1546-50. doi: 10.1016/j.humpath.2014.03.013. Epub 2014
Apr 13.

Analysis of BRCA2 loss of heterozygosity in tumor tissue using droplet digital
polymerase chain reaction.

Cochran RL(1), Cravero K(1), Chu D(1), Erlanger B(1), Toro PV(1), Beaver JA(1),
Zabransky DJ(1), Wong HY(1), Cidado J(1), Croessmann S(1), Parsons HA(1), Kim
M(1), Wheelan SJ(1), Argani P(1), Park BH(2).

Author information: 
(1)The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21287. (2)The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive
Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD
21287. Electronic address: bpark2@jhmi.edu.

Loss-of-heterozygosity (LOH) analysis of archival tumor tissue can aid in
determining the clinical significance of BRCA variants. Here we describe an
approach for assessing LOH in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues
using variant-specific probes and droplet digital polymerase chain reaction
(ddPCR). We evaluated LOH in 2 related breast cancer patients harboring a rare
missense BRCA2 variant of unknown clinical significance (c.6966G>T; M2322I).
Conventional PCR followed by Sanger sequencing suggested a change in allelic
abundance in the FFPE specimens. However, we found no evidence of LOH as
determined by the allelic ratio (wild type-variant) for BRCA2 in both patients'
archival tumor specimens and adjacent normal control tissues using ddPCR. In
summary, these experiments demonstrate the utility of ddPCR to quickly and
accurately assess LOH in archival FFPE tumor tissue.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humpath.2014.03.013 
PMCID: PMC4065621
PMID: 24824029  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Lett Appl Microbiol. 2014 Sep;59(3):263-71. doi: 10.1111/lam.12283. Epub 2014 Jun
2.

A decade with nucleic acid-based microbiological methods in safety control of
foods.

Kuchta T(1), Knutsson R, Fiore A, Kudirkiene E, Höhl A, Horvatek Tomic D,
Gotcheva V, Pöpping B, Scaramagli S, To Kim A, Wagner M, De Medici D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Biology, Food Research Institute,
Bratislava 26, Slovakia.

In the last decade, nucleic acid-based methods gradually started to replace or
complement the culture-based methods and immunochemical assays in routine
laboratories involved in food control. In particular, real-time polymerase chain 
reaction (PCR) was technically developed to the stage of good speed, sensitivity 
and reproducibility, at minimized risk of carry-over contamination. Basic
advantages provided by nucleic acid-based methods are higher speed and added
information, such as subspecies identification, information on the presence of
genes important for virulence or antibiotic resistance. Nucleic acid-based
methods are attractive also to detect important foodborne pathogens for which no 
classical counterparts are available, namely foodborne pathogenic viruses. This
review briefly summarizes currently available or developing molecular
technologies that may be candidates for involvement in microbiological molecular 
methods in the next decade. Potential of nonamplification as well as
amplification methods is discussed, including fluorescent in situ hybridization, 
alternative PCR chemistries, alternative amplification technologies, digital PCR 
and nanotechnologies.

© 2014 The Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/lam.12283 
PMID: 24820436  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. PLoS One. 2014 May 6;9(5):e96170. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0096170. eCollection 
2014.

Gene expression profile of Bombyx mori hemocyte under the stress of destruxin A.

Gong L(1), Chen X(1), Liu C(1), Jin F(1), Hu Q(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Natural Resource and Environment, South China Agricultural
University, Guangzhou, China.

Destruxin A (DA) is a cyclo-peptidic mycotoxin from the entomopathogenic fungus
Metarhizium anisopliae. To uncover potential genes associated with its molecular 
mechanisms, a digital gene expression (DGE) profiling analysis was used to
compare differentially expressed genes in the hemocytes of silkworm larvae
treated with DA. Ten DGE libraries were constructed, sequenced, and assembled,
and the unigenes with least 2.0-fold difference were further analyzed. The
numbers of up-regulated genes were 10, 20, 18, 74 and 8, as well as the numbers
of down-regulated genes were 0, 1, 8, 13 and 3 at 1, 4, 8, 12 and 24 h post
treatment, respectively. Totally, the expression of 132 genes were significantly 
changed, among them, 1, 3 and 12 genes were continually up-regulated at 4, 3 and 
2 different time points, respectively, while 1 gene was either up or
down-regulated continually at 2 different time points. Furthermore, 68 genes were
assigned to one or multiple gene ontology (GO) terms and 89 genes were assigned
to specific Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) Orthology. In-depth
analysis identified that these genes putatively involved in insecticide
resistance, cell apoptosis, and innate immune defense. Finally, twenty
differentially expressed genes were randomly chosen and validated by quantitative
real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). Our studies provide insights into the toxic effect of
this microbial insecticide on silkworm's hemocytes, and are helpful to better
understanding of the molecular mechanisms of DA as a biological insecticide.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0096170 
PMCID: PMC4011735
PMID: 24801594  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Biol Trace Elem Res. 2014 Jun;159(1-3):224-32. doi: 10.1007/s12011-014-9986-7.
Epub 2014 May 1.

Effects of feeding silkworm with nanoparticulate anatase TiO2 (TiO2 NPs) on its
feed efficiency.

Zhang H(1), Ni M, Li F, Xu K, Wang B, Hong F, Shen W, Li B.

Author information: 
(1)School of Basic Medicine and Biological Sciences, Soochow University, 215123, 
Suzhou, Jiangsu, People's Republic of China.

This study aimed to investigate the effects of titanium dioxide nanoparticles
(TiO2 NPs) on feed efficiency of silkworm (Bombyx mori) (B. mori). The results
showed that the amount of ingested food was increased by 3.31%, the percentage of
ingested food was increased by 16.36%, the instar was prolonged by 6.77 h, the
body mass of mature silkworm was increased by 11.41%, the cocoon mass was
increased by 5.47%, the cocoon shell mass was increased by 9.80%, and the ratio
of cocoon shell was increased by 3.54%. Average cocoon filament length,
reelability, and neatness were increased by 3.15, 17.57, and 1.72%, respectively,
whereas the cocoon filament size was decreased by 0.19%. The gene expression
profiles were also examined with digital gene expression (DGE). The results
showed that among 4,011 genes detected, 127 genes were differentially expressed
including 57 genes whose expression was upregulated and 70 genes whose expression
was downregulated. The expression levels of five genes related to metabolism were
verified with quantitative real-time PCR, and the results were consistent with
the DGE data. The activities of three major digestive enzymes in the midgut were 
also assayed; the results showed that the activities of trehalase, protease, and 
lipase in TiO2 NP-fed group were increased by 42.55, 78.13, and 33.33%,
respectively. These results indicate that feeding B. mori with TiO2 NPs can
stimulate the transcriptional level of genes related to digestion and absorption 
of nutrients in the midgut and increase the activities of trehalase, protease,
and lipase and, thus, increase the feed efficiency of B. mori.

DOI: 10.1007/s12011-014-9986-7 
PMID: 24789477  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Biomed Microdevices. 2014 Aug;16(4):639-44. doi: 10.1007/s10544-014-9866-0.

Quasi-digital PCR: Enrichment and quantification of rare DNA variants.

Sundberg SO(1), Wittwer CT, Zhou L, Palais R, Dwight Z, Gale BK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Utah, 15 North Medical Drive East, Salt
Lake City, UT, 84112, USA, scott.sundberg@path.utah.edu.

Rare variant enrichment and quantification was achieved by allele-specific,
competitive blocker, digital PCR for aiming to provide a noninvasive method for
detecting rare DNA variants from circulating cells. The allele-specific blocking 
chemistry improves sensitivity and lowers assay cost over previously described
digital PCR methods while the instrumentation allowed for rapid thermal cycling
for faster turnaround time. Because the digital counting of the amplified
variants occurs in the presence of many wild-type templates in each well, the
method is called "quasi-digital PCR". A spinning disk was used to separate
samples into 1000 wells, followed by rapid-cycle, allele-specific amplification
in the presence of a molecular beacon that serves as both a blocker and digital
indicator. Monte Carlo simulations gave similar results to Poisson distribution
statistics for mean number of template molecules and provided an upper and lower 
bound at a specified confidence level and accounted for input DNA concentration
variation. A 111 bp genomic DNA fragment including the BRAF p.V600E mutation
(c.T1799A) was amplified with quasi-digital PCR using cycle times of 23 s.
Dilution series confirmed that wild-type amplification was suppressed and that
the sensitivity for the mutant allele was <0.01 % (43 mutant alleles amongst
500,000 wild-type alleles). The Monte Carlo method presented here is publically
available on the internet and can calculate target concentration given digital
data or predict digital data given target concentration.

DOI: 10.1007/s10544-014-9866-0 
PMID: 24781884  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. J Neurovirol. 2014 Aug;20(4):341-51. doi: 10.1007/s13365-014-0249-3. Epub 2014
Apr 30.

Digital droplet PCR (ddPCR) for the precise quantification of human
T-lymphotropic virus 1 proviral loads in peripheral blood and cerebrospinal fluid
of HAM/TSP patients and identification of viral mutations.

Brunetto GS(1), Massoud R, Leibovitch EC, Caruso B, Johnson K, Ohayon J, Fenton
K, Cortese I, Jacobson S.

Author information: 
(1)Viral Immunology Section, Neuroimmunology Branch, National Institutes of
Health, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, 9000 Rockville
Pike, Building 10, Room 5C-103, Bethesda, MD, 20892, USA.

An elevated human T cell lymphotropic virus 1 (HTLV)-1 proviral load (PVL) is the
main risk factor for developing HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic
paraparesis (HAM/TSP) in HTLV-1 infected subjects, and a high cerebrospinal fluid
(CSF) to peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) PVL ratio may be diagnostic of 
the condition. However, the standard method for quantification of HTLV-1
PVL-real-time PCR-has multiple limitations, including increased inter-assay
variability in compartments with low cell numbers, such as CSF. Therefore, in
this study, we evaluated a novel technique for HTVL-1 PVL quantification, digital
droplet PCR (ddPCR). In ddPCR, PCR samples are partitioned into thousands of
nanoliter-sized droplets, amplified on a thermocycler, and queried for
fluorescent signal. Due to the high number of independent events (droplets),
Poisson algorithms are used to determine absolute copy numbers independently of a
standard curve, which enables highly precise quantitation. This assay has low
intra-assay variability allowing for reliable PVL measurement in PBMC and CSF
compartments of both asymptomatic carriers (AC) and HAM/TSP patients. It is also 
useful for HTLV-1-related clinical applications, such as longitudinal monitoring 
of PVL and identification of viral mutations within the region targeted by the
primers and probe.

DOI: 10.1007/s13365-014-0249-3 
PMCID: PMC4085507
PMID: 24781526  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Mitochondrial DNA A DNA Mapp Seq Anal. 2016;27(1):742-6. doi:
10.3109/19401736.2014.913168. Epub 2014 Apr 29.

Droplet digital PCR technology promises new applications and research areas.

Manoj P(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology , Thycaud P.O. , Thiruvananthapuram , 
Kerala , India.

Digital Polymerase Chain Reaction (dPCR) is used to quantify nucleic acids and
its applications are in the detection and precise quantification of low-level
pathogens, rare genetic sequences, quantification of copy number variants, rare
mutations and in relative gene expressions. Here the PCR is performed in large
number of reaction chambers or partitions and the reaction is carried out in each
partition individually. This separation allows a more reliable collection and
sensitive measurement of nucleic acid. Results are calculated by counting
amplified target sequence (positive droplets) and the number of partitions in
which there is no amplification (negative droplets). The mean number of target
sequences was calculated by Poisson Algorithm. Poisson correction compensates the
presence of more than one copy of target gene in any droplets. The method
provides information with accuracy and precision which is highly reproducible and
less susceptible to inhibitors than qPCR. It has been demonstrated in studying
variations in gene sequences, such as copy number variants and point mutations,
distinguishing differences between expression of nearly identical alleles,
assessment of clinically relevant genetic variations and it is routinely used for
clonal amplification of samples for NGS methods. dPCR enables more reliable
predictors of tumor status and patient prognosis by absolute quantitation using
reference normalizations. Rare mitochondrial DNA deletions associated with a
range of diseases and disorders as well as aging can be accurately detected with 
droplet digital PCR.

DOI: 10.3109/19401736.2014.913168 
PMID: 24779593  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Expert Rev Mol Diagn. 2014 Jun;14(5):509-11. doi: 10.1586/14737159.2014.915749.
Epub 2014 Apr 30.

Measuring hypoxia-induced RNA in maternal blood: a new way to identify critically
hypoxic fetuses in utero?

Whitehead CL(1), Tong S.

Author information: 
(1)Translational Obstetrics Group, Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology,
University of Melbourne, Mercy Hospital for Women, 163 Studley Rd., Heidelberg
3084, Victoria, Australia.

Severe fetal hypoxia causes stillbirth and permanent childhood disability.
Unfortunately, none of the current tests is precise at determining the degree of 
fetal hypoxia in utero. We recently showed that hypoxia-induced RNA abundance in 
the maternal circulation (of likely fetoplacental origin) was tightly correlated 
with the degree of fetal hypoxia, suggesting it may be possible to generate a
maternal blood test to more precisely determine the severity of fetal hypoxia.
Such a test could drastically improve outcomes and decrease stillbirth rates. We 
are running a large prospective study to validate this test, and will use
microarrays, RNA-seq and digital PCR to identify RNA transcripts that best
correlate with the severity of fetal hypoxia. Finally, we note our data hints at 
the possibility of measuring dynamic changes in the fetoplacental transcriptome, 
measured in serial maternal blood samples. This could afford exciting new
insights into the pathology of major obstetric diseases.

DOI: 10.1586/14737159.2014.915749 
PMID: 24779397  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Antiviral Res. 2014 Jul;107:42-9. doi: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2014.04.005. Epub 2014
Apr 24.

Maraviroc intensification in patients with suppressed HIV viremia has limited
effects on CD4+ T cell recovery and gene expression.

Beliakova-Bethell N(1), Jain S(2), Woelk CH(3), Witt MD(4), Sun X(2), Lada SM(5),
Spina CA(6), Goicoechea M(7), Rought SE(5), Haubrich R(2), Dubé MP(8).

Author information: 
(1)University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA. Electronic
address: nbeliako@ucsd.edu. (2)University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA
92093, USA. (3)University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA;
Veterans Affairs San Diego Healthcare System, San Diego, CA 92161, USA; Faculty
of Medicine, University of Southampton, Southampton, Hants SO16 6YD, UK. (4)Los
Angeles Biomedical Research Institute at Harbor-UCLA, and Geffen School of
Medicine at the University of California, Los Angeles, CA 90502, USA. (5)Veterans
Affairs San Diego Healthcare System, San Diego, CA 92161, USA. (6)University of
California San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA; Veterans Affairs San Diego
Healthcare System, San Diego, CA 92161, USA. (7)Scripps Clinic Torrey Pines, La
Jolla, CA 92037, USA. (8)Department of Medicine and Division of Infectious
Diseases, University of Southern California Keck School of Medicine, Los Angeles,
CA 90033, USA. Electronic address: mdube@usc.edu.

Addition of the CCR5 inhibitor Maraviroc (MVC) to ongoing antiretroviral therapy 
increases CD4+ T cell counts in some virologically suppressed patients with
suboptimal CD4+ T cell recovery. To understand the mechanisms by which MVC
elicits increases in CD4+ T cell counts, the present study was undertaken to
identify host factors (i.e. genes) that are modulated and are correlated with
CD4+ T cell recovery during the 24weeks of MVC intensification in 32 subjects.
Median changes of CD4+ T cell counts over 24weeks of MVC compared to baseline
were 38cells/mm(3) (p<0.001). The median slope of CD4+ T cell recovery was
39cells/mm(3) per year before initiation of MVC and 76cells/mm(3) per year during
MVC intensification, however, this increase was not statistically significant
(p=0.33). Microarray analysis (N=31,426 genes) identified a single differentially
expressed gene, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF), which was modestly (1.44-fold,
p<0.001) downregulated by MVC at week 24 compared to baseline. TNF differential
expression was evaluated using an independent method of droplet digital PCR, but 
the difference was not significant (p=0.6). Changes in gene expression did not
correlate with CD4+ T cell recovery or any changes in the CD4+ T cell maturation,
proliferation and activation phenotypes. In summary, our data suggest that modest
improvements of CD4+ T cell counts during MVC intensification cannot be explained
by changes in gene expression elicited by MVC. However, the modest changes in T
cell composition, including reduction of the percentages of Tregs, proliferating 
CD4+ T cells and senescent CD8+ T cells, suggest immunologically favorable
effects of MVC.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2014.04.005 
PMCID: PMC4116489
PMID: 24769244  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Ann Rheum Dis. 2015 Aug;74(8):1603-11. doi: 10.1136/annrheumdis-2013-204143. Epub
2014 Apr 24.

Btk inhibition suppresses agonist-induced human macrophage activation and
inflammatory gene expression in RA synovial tissue explants.

Hartkamp LM(1), Fine JS(2), van Es IE(1), Tang MW(1), Smith M(2), Woods J(2),
Narula S(2), DeMartino J(2), Tak PP(3), Reedquist KA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Immunology, Academic Medical Center, University of 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands Department of Clinical Immunology and
Rheumatology, Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands. (2)Department of Inflammation Discovery, Hoffmann-La Roche, Inc.,
Nutley, New Jersey, USA. (3)Department of Clinical Immunology and Rheumatology,
Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline, Stevenage, and University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.

OBJECTIVES: Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk) is required for B lymphocyte and
myeloid cell contributions to pathology in murine models of arthritis. Here, we
examined the potential contributions of synovial Btk expression and activation to
inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Btk was detected by immunohistochemistry and digital image
analysis in synovial tissue from biologically naive RA (n=16) and psoriatic
arthritis (PsA) (n=12) patients. Cell populations expressing Btk were identified 
by immunofluorescent double labelling confocal microscopy, quantitative (q-) PCR 
and immunoblotting. The effects of a Btk-specific inhibitor, RN486, on gene
expression in human macrophages and RA synovial tissue explants (n=8) were
assessed by qPCR, ELISA and single-plex assays.
RESULTS: Btk was expressed at equivalent levels in RA and PsA synovial tissue,
restricted to B lymphocytes, monocytes, macrophages and mast cells. RN486
significantly inhibited macrophage IL-6 production induced by Fc receptor and
CD40 ligation. RN486 also reduced mRNA expression of overlapping gene sets
induced by IgG, CD40 ligand (CD40L) and RA synovial fluid, and significantly
suppressed macrophage production of CD40L-induced IL-8, TNF, MMP-1 and MMP-10,
LPS-induced MMP-1, MMP-7 and MMP-10 production, and spontaneous production of
IL-6, PDGF, CXCL-9 and MMP-1 by RA synovial explants.
CONCLUSIONS: Btk is expressed equivalently in RA and PsA synovial tissue,
primarily in macrophages. Btk activity is needed to drive macrophage activation
in response to multiple agonists relevant to inflammatory arthritis, and promotes
RA synovial tissue cytokine and MMP production. Pharmacological targeting of Btk 
may be of therapeutic benefit in the treatment of RA and other inflammatory
diseases.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/annrheumdis-2013-204143 
PMID: 24764451  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Chimerism. 2014;5(2):24-39.

Naturally acquired microchimerism: implications for transplantation outcome and
novel methodologies for detection.

Eikmans M(1), van Halteren AG(2), van Besien K(3), van Rood JJ(4), Drabbels
JJ(1), Claas FH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunohematology and Blood Transfusion; Leiden University
Medical Center; Leiden, the Netherlands. (2)Immunology Laboratory; Willem
Alexander Children's Hospital; Leiden University Medical Center; Leiden, the
Netherlands. (3)Weil Cornell Medical College; New York City, NY USA.
(4)Department of Immunohematology and Blood Transfusion; Leiden University
Medical Center; Leiden, the Netherlands; Europdonor Foundation; Leiden, the
Netherlands.

Microchimerism represents a condition where one individual harbors genetically
distinct cell populations, and the chimeric population constitutes <1% of the
total number of cells. The most common natural source of microchimerism is
pregnancy. The reciprocal cell exchange between a mother and her child often
leads to the stable engraftment of hematopoietic and non-hematopoietic stem cells
in both parties. Interaction between cells from the mother and those from the
child may result in maternal immune cells becoming sensitized to inherited
paternal alloantigens of the child, which are not expressed by the mother
herself. Vice versa, immune cells of the child may become sensitized toward the
non-inherited maternal alloantigens of the mother. The extent of microchimerism, 
its anatomical location, and the sensitivity of the techniques used for detecting
its presence collectively determine whether microchimerism can be detected in an 
individual. In this review, we focus on the clinical consequences of
microchimerism in solid organ and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, and
propose concepts derived from data of epidemiologic studies. Next, we elaborate
on the latest molecular methodology, including digital PCR, for determining in a 
reliable and sensitive way the extent of microchimerism. For the first time,
tools have become available to isolate viable chimeric cells from a host
background, so that the challenges of establishing the biologic mechanisms and
function of these cells may finally be tackled.


PMCID: PMC4199805
PMID: 24762743  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. PLoS One. 2014 Apr 22;9(4):e95827. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0095827. eCollection
2014.

Changes in the organics metabolism in the hepatopancreas induced by eyestalk
ablation of the Chinese mitten crab Eriocheir sinensis determined via
transcriptome and DGE analysis.

Sun Y(1), Zhang Y(2), Liu Y(2), Xue S(1), Geng X(1), Hao T(2), Sun J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Tianjin Center for Control and Prevention of Aquatic Animal Infectious
Disease, Tianjin, People's Republic of China. (2)Tianjin Key Laboratory of Animal
and Plant Resistance, College of Life Sciences, Tianjin Normal University,
Tianjin, People's Republic of China. (3)Tianjin Key Laboratory of Animal and
Plant Resistance, College of Life Sciences, Tianjin Normal University, Tianjin,
People's Republic of China; Tianjin Center for Control and Prevention of Aquatic 
Animal Infectious Disease, Tianjin, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: To understand the regulation mechanism of eyestalk ablation on the
activities of hepatopancreas, Illumina RNA-Seq and digital gene expression (DGE) 
analyses were performed to investigate the transcriptome of the eyestalk,
Y-organ, and hepatopancreas of E. sinensis and to identify the genes associated
with the hepatopancreas metabolism that are differentially expressed under
eyestalk ablation conditions.
RESULTS: A total of 58,582 unigenes were constructed from 157,168 contigs with
SOAPdenovo. A BlastX search against the NCBI Nr database identified 21,678
unigenes with an E-value higher than 10⁻⁵. Using the BLAST2Go and BlastAll
software programs, 6,883 unigenes (11.75% of the total) were annotated to the
Gene Ontology (GO) database, 7,386 (12.6%) unigenes were classified into 25
Clusters of Orthologous Groups of Proteins (COGs), 16,200 (27.7%) unigenes were
assigned to 242 Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways, and
1,846 unigenes were matched to "metabolism pathways". The DGE analysis revealed
that 1,416 unigenes were significantly differentially expressed in the
hepatopancreas, of which 890 unigenes were up-regulated and 526 unigenes were
down-regulated. Of the differentially expressed genes, 382 unigenes were
annotated and 63 were classified into metabolism pathways. The results of the
real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis of four unigenes related to
carbohydrate metabolism were consistent with those obtained from the DGE
analysis, which demonstrates that the sequencing data were satisfactory for
further gene expression analyses.
CONCLUSION: This paper reported the transcriptom of the eyestalk, Y-organ, and
hepatopancreas from E. sinensis. DGE analysis provided the different expressed
genes of the metabolism processes in hepatopancreas that are affected by eyestalk
ablation. These findings will facilitate further investigations on the mechanisms
of the metabolism of organic substances during development and reproduction in
crustaceans.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0095827 
PMCID: PMC3995808
PMID: 24755618  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. J Virol Methods. 2014 Aug;204:86-90. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2014.04.009. Epub
2014 Apr 18.

Clinical performance evaluation of the BD Veritor System Flu A+B assay.

Nam MH(1), Jang JW(1), Lee JH(1), Cho CH(1), Lim CS(2), Kim WJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Korea University Medical School, Korea
University Guro Hospital, Guro 2 Dong, GuroGu, Seoul 152-703, Republic of Korea. 
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Korea University Medical School, Korea
University Guro Hospital, Guro 2 Dong, GuroGu, Seoul 152-703, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: malarim@korea.ac.kr. (3)Department of Internal Medicine,
Korea University Medical School, Korea University Guro Hospital, Guro 2 Dong,
GuroGu, Seoul 152-703, Republic of Korea.

Early identification of influenza is important for optimal patient management and
infection control. Rapid influenza antigen tests have been used routinely in
clinical settings to confirm clinical suspicion, despite their low sensitivity.
To improve sensitivity, various influenza point-of-care test reader systems have 
been developed. This study evaluated the clinical performance of a digital
readout rapid influenza diagnostic test (RIDT), the BD Veritor™ System Flu A+B
assay (BD). Nasopharyngeal swabs taken from 250 patients (influenza A positive,
n=75; influenza B positive, n=75; and influenza negative, n=100) were analyzed
using the BinaxNOW® Influenza A/B antigen kit (BN), SD Influenza Ag A/B kit (SD),
BD, real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and an
influenza virus culture. Compared to RT-PCR, the sensitivities of BN, SD, and BD 
were 56.0, 53.3, and 72.0%, respectively, for influenza A and 57.3, 65.3, and
69.3%, respectively, for influenza B. No false-positive results were noted with
the three rapid antigen tests. For influenza A, the average RT-PCR threshold
cycle (Ct) for specimens that tested positive using BD was higher than that for
specimens that tested positive using BN and SD. BD is a sensitive and easy method
for the early detection of influenza A and B.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2014.04.009 
PMID: 24747589  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Methods Mol Biol. 2014;1160:215-28. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-0733-5_17.

Developing noninvasive diagnosis for single-gene disorders: the role of digital
PCR.

Barrett AN(1), Chitty LS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine,
National University of Singapore, NUHS Tower Block, Level 12, 1E Kent Ridge Road,
Singapore, 119228, Singapore, obganb@nus.edu.sg.

Cell-free fetal DNA constitutes approximately 10 % of the cell-free DNA found in 
maternal plasma and can be used as a reliable source of fetal genetic material
for noninvasive prenatal diagnosis (NIPD) from early pregnancy. The relatively
high levels of maternal background can make detection of paternally inherited
point mutations challenging. Diagnosis of inheritance of autosomal recessive
disorders using qPCR is even more challenging due to the high background of
mutant maternal allele. Digital PCR is a very sensitive modified method of
quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR), allowing absolute quantitation and rare allele
detection without the need for standards or normalization. Samples are diluted
and then partitioned into a large number of small qPCR reactions, some of which
contain the target molecule and some which do not; the proportion of positive
reactions can be used to calculate the concentration of targets in the initial
sample. Here we discuss the use of digital PCR as an accurate approach to NIPD
for single-gene disorders.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-0733-5_17 
PMID: 24740232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Methods Mol Biol. 2014;1160:189-214. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-0733-5_16.

Clinical applications using digital PCR.

Bizouarn F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gene Expression Division, Bio-Rad Laboratories, 2000 Alfred Nobel Dr.,
Hercules, CA, 94547, USA, frank_bizouarn@Bio-Rad.com.

Molecular diagnostics and disease-specific tailored treatments are now being
introduced to patients at many hospitals and clinics throughout the world (Strain
and Richman, Curr Opin HIV AIDS 8:106-110, 2013) and becoming prevalent in the
nonscientific literature. Instead of generically using a "one treatment fits all"
approach that may have varying levels of effectiveness to different patients,
patient-specific molecular profiling based on the genetic makeup of the disease
and/or a more accurate pathogen titer could provide more effective treatments
with fewer unwanted side effects. One commonly known example of this scenario is 
epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). EGFR is upregulated in many cancers,
including many lung and colorectal cancers. Commonly used treatments for these
include the receptor blockers cetuximab or panitumumab and tyrosine kinase
inhibitors erlotinib or gefitinib. These agents are effective at reducing
out-of-control cell cycling and tumor proliferation, but only if downstream
signaling kinases and phosphatases are not mutated. Known oncogenes such as BRAF 
V600E and KRAS G12/13 that are constitutively activated render these treatments
ineffective. The use of known ineffective drugs and treatments can thus be
avoided reducing time to more effective treatments, reducing cost, and increasing
patient well-being. Although digital PCR is for all practical purposes a "new"
technology, there is already tremendous interest in its potential for the
clinical diagnostics arena. Specificity of the information acquired, accuracy of 
results, time to results, and cost per sample analyzed are making dPCR an
attractive tool for this field. Three areas where dPCR will have a noticeable
impact are pathogen/viral detection and quantitation, copy number variations, and
rare mutation detection and abundance, but it will inevitably expand from these
as the technology becomes more and more prevalent. This chapter discusses digital
PCR assay optimization and validation, pathogen/viral detection and quantitation,
copy number variation, and rare mutation abundance assays. The sample methods
described below utilize the QX100/QX200 methodologies, but with the exception of 
reaction sub-partitioning (dependent on the instrumentation used) most other
parameters remain the same.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-0733-5_16 
PMID: 24740231  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Methods Mol Biol. 2014;1160:27-41. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-0733-5_4.

Introduction to digital PCR.

Bizouarn F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gene Expression Division, Bio-Rad Laboratories, 2000 Alfred Nobel Dr.,
Hercules, CA, 94547, USA, frank_bizouarn@Bio-Rad.com.

Digital PCR (dPCR) is a molecular biology technique going through a renaissance. 
With the arrival of new instrumentation dPCR can now be performed as a routine
molecular biology assay. This exciting new technique provides quantitative and
detection capabilities that by far surpass other methods currently used. This
chapter is an overview of some of the applications currently being performed
using dPCR as well as the fundamental concepts and techniques this technology is 
based on.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-0733-5_4 
PMID: 24740219  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Methods Mol Biol. 2014;1160:1-3. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-0733-5_1.

Twenty years of qPCR: a mature technology?

Raso A(1), Biassoni R.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio U.O.C. Neurochirurgia, Istituto Giannina Gaslini, Genova, Italy.

Quantitative PCR is the "gold standard" technology to quantify nucleic acids and,
since the first report describing real-time PCR detection in 1993, its use has
been grown exponentially. More recent technological advancements have extended
the field of applications ranging from high-resolution melting detection to
digital PCR. Nowadays, it is a very accessible technique, but some pitfalls
should be overcome in order to achieve robust and reliable analysis.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-0733-5_1 
PMID: 24740216  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Zhonghua Gan Zang Bing Za Zhi. 2014 Feb;22(2):104-7. doi:
10.3760/cma.j.issn.1007-3418.2014.02.007.

[Gut flora and gut-derived endotoxin in minimal hepatic encephalopathy].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhai HQ(1), Fan H, Geng JW, Tao J, Xun LT, Wang Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, the First People's Hospital of Yunnan
Province, Kunming 650032, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the relationship of gut flora and gut-derived endotoxin
with minimal hepatic encephalopathy (MHE).
METHODS: Patients with hepatitis B virus-related liver cirrhosis (HBV-LC) were
screened for MHE using the number connect test-A (NCT-A) and digital symbol test 
(DST) and divided into the following groups: HBV-LC with (+) MHE (n = 26) and
HBV-liver cirrhosis without (-) MHE (n = 25); in addition, one healthy immediate 
family member of each patient in the HBV-LC + MHE group was enrolled as a
control. Each participant provided fecal and blood samples. PCR amplification and
454 pyrosequencing were used to detect bacterial 16S rRNA in feces. Turbidimetric
Limulus amebocyte lysate assay was used to detect level of endotoxin in serum.
The significance of inter-group differences was assessed by one-way ANOVA or
Student's t-test.
RESULTS: The three groups showed different distributions of gut flora. The
differences in the microbial communities' members and distributions were related 
to disease or health status, but not to the patient's genetic makeup or diet. In 
particular, the HBV-LC + MHE patients showed significantly lower amounts of
different bacterial species and abundance of these species than the other two
(non-MHE) groups (P less than 0.05). The healthy control family members had a
richer diversity of gut flora than their counterparts with HBV-LC + MHE (P less
than 0.05). The HBV-LV + MHE patients also had higher serum levels of endotoxin.
CONCLUSION: Development of minimal hepatic encephalopathy in patients with HBV-LC
may be related to a gut flora disorder or higher levels of endotoxin in serum.


PMID: 24735591 


984. Infect Genet Evol. 2014 Jul;25:28-35. doi: 10.1016/j.meegid.2014.03.028. Epub
2014 Apr 12.

Comparison of a quantitative Real-Time PCR assay and droplet digital PCR for copy
number analysis of the CCL4L genes.

Bharuthram A(1), Paximadis M(2), Picton AC(1), Tiemessen CT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for HIV and STIs, National Institute for Communicable Diseases,
National Health Laboratory Service, Johannesburg, South Africa; Faculty of Health
Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa. (2)Centre 
for HIV and STIs, National Institute for Communicable Diseases, National Health
Laboratory Service, Johannesburg, South Africa; Faculty of Health Sciences,
University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa. Electronic address: 
paxim@nicd.ac.za.

The controversy surrounding the findings that copy number variation, of the CCL3 
encoding genes, influences HIV-1 infection and disease progression has been in
part attributed to the variable results obtained from methods used for copy
number evaluation. Like CCL3, the genes encoding the CC chemokine CCL4, also a
natural ligand of the CCR5 receptor, are found to occur in population-specific
multiple copy number and have been shown to play a protective role against HIV-1.
This study evaluated the standard method of quantitative Real-Time PCR (qPCR) and
droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) for CCL4L gene copy number determination. The CCL4
encoding genes are CCL4, occurring in two copies per diploid genome (pdg), and
the non-allelic CCL4L genes, comprised of CCL4L1 and CCL4L2, which are both found
in multiple copies pdg. Copy number of CCL4L, CCL4L1 and CCL4L2 was determined in
a cohort of HIV-1-uninfected individuals from the South African Black (n=23) and 
Caucasian (n=32) population groups using qPCR and ddPCR. A stronger correlation
between the number of CCL4L copies and the sum of CCL4L1 and CCL4L2 copies
generated by ddPCR (r=0.99, p<0.0001) compared to qPCR (r=0.87, p<0.0001) was
observed. Real-Time qPCR exhibited greater inaccuracy at higher copy numbers
which is particularly relevant to our cohort of Black individuals who have a
higher range of CCL4L copies (3-6) compared to Caucasians (0-4) and a higher
population median (4 and 2, respectively). Medians and ranges of CCL4L1 (Black:
2, 0-4, Caucasian: 0, 0-2) and CCL4L2 (Black: 2, 1-5, Caucasian: 2, 0-3) were
also higher in the Black population. Droplet digital PCR was shown to be a far
superior method to qPCR for assessment of CCL4 gene copy number variation, the
accuracy of which is essential for studies of the contribution of variable gene
copy number to phenotypic outcomes of host infection and disease course.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.meegid.2014.03.028 
PMID: 24727646  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Biotechniques. 2014 Apr 1;56(4):194-6. doi: 10.2144/000114159. eCollection 2014.

Advantages of using the QIAshredder instead of restriction digestion to prepare
DNA for droplet digital PCR.

Yukl SA(1), Kaiser P(1), Kim P(2), Li P(1), Wong JK(1).

Author information: 
(1)San Francisco VA Medical Center, San Francisco, CA; University of California, 
San Francisco (UCSF), San Francisco, CA. (2)University of California, San
Francisco (UCSF), San Francisco, CA.

The viscosity of genomic DNA can interfere with digital PCR systems that
partition samples into oil droplets or microfluidic wells. Restriction digestion 
may reduce the viscosity, but the process is labor-intensive, and the buffer can 
alter the conditions for PCR. DNA fragmentation using the QIAshredder (a
biopolymer spin column) is faster, may result in more predictable and
uniformly-sized fragments, and avoids the need for restriction buffers that can
inhibit downstream PCR. In 10 separate head-to-head experiments comparing
aliquots of DNA processed using the QIAshredder to those digested with RsaI or
BsaJI prior to droplet digital PCR, we found that the copy numbers measured from 
the QIAshredded DNA tended to be greater than those measured from the digested
DNA (average of 1.35-fold compared with BsaJI; P < 0.0001), even for inputs as
high as 1.8 μg or dilution down to the single copy level.

DOI: 10.2144/000114159 
PMCID: PMC4948299
PMID: 24724845  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Expert Rev Mol Diagn. 2014 May;14(4):501-7. doi: 10.1586/14737159.2014.910456.
Epub 2014 Apr 11.

The potential advantages of digital PCR for clinical virology diagnostics.

Hall Sedlak R(1), Jerome KR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA.

Digital PCR (dPCR), a new nucleic acid amplification technology, offers several
potential advantages over real-time or quantitative PCR (qPCR), the current
workhorse of clinical molecular virology diagnostics. Several studies have
demonstrated dPCR assays for human cytomegalovirus or HIV, which give more
precise and reproducible results than qPCR assays without sacrificing
sensitivity. Here we review the literature comparing dPCR and qPCR performance in
viral molecular diagnostic assays and offer perspective on the future of dPCR in 
clinical virology diagnostics.

DOI: 10.1586/14737159.2014.910456 
PMID: 24724628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. PLoS One. 2014 Apr 7;9(4):e94203. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0094203. eCollection 
2014.

Transcriptome sequencing and gene expression analysis of Trichoderma
brevicompactum under different culture conditions.

Shentu XP(1), Liu WP(2), Zhan XH(2), Xu YP(2), Xu JF(3), Yu XP(2), Zhang CX(4).

Author information: 
(1)Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Biometrology and Inspection &
Quarantine, College of Life Sciences, China Jiliang University, Hangzhou, China; 
Institute of Insect Science, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China. (2)Zhejiang
Provincial Key Laboratory of Biometrology and Inspection & Quarantine, College of
Life Sciences, China Jiliang University, Hangzhou, China. (3)Arkansas Biosciences
Institute and College of Agriculture, Arkansas State University, Jonesboro,
Arkansas, Untied States of America. (4)Institute of Insect Science, Zhejiang
University, Hangzhou, China.

BACKGROUND: Trichoderma brevicompactum is the Trichoderma species producing
simple trichothecenes-trichodermin, a potential antifungal antibiotic and a
protein synthesis inhibitor. However, the biosynthetic pathway of trichodermin in
Trichoderma is not completely clarified. Therefore, transcriptome and gene
expression profiling data for this species are needed as an important resource to
better understand the mechanism of the trichodermin biosynthesis and provide a
blueprint for further study of T. brevicompactum.
RESULTS: In this study, de novo assembly of the T. brevicompactum transcriptome
using the short-read sequencing technology (Illumina) was performed. In addition,
two digital gene expression (DGE) libraries of T. brevicompactum under the
trichodermin-producing and trichodermin-nonproducing culture conditions,
respectively, were constructed to identify the differences in gene expression. A 
total of 23,351 unique transcripts with a mean length of 856 bp were obtained by 
a new Trinity de novo assembler. The variations of the gene expression under
different culture conditions were also identified. The expression profiling data 
revealed that 3,282 unique transcripts had a significantly differential
expression under the trichodermin-producing condition, as compared to the
trichodermin-nonproducing condition. This study provides a large amount of
transcript sequence data that will contribute to the study of the trichodermin
biosynthesis in T. brevicompactum. Furthermore, quantitative real-time PCR
(qRT-PCR) was found to be useful to confirm the differential expression of the
unique transcripts.
CONCLUSION: Our study provides considerable gene expression information of T.
brevicompactum at the transcriptional level,which will help accelerate the
research on the trichodermin biosynthesis. Additionally, we have demonstrated the
feasibility of using the Illumina sequencing based DGE system for gene expression
profiling, and have shed new light on functional studies of the genes involved in
T. brevicompactum biosynthesis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0094203 
PMCID: PMC3978026
PMID: 24710600  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Mol Biol Rep. 2014 Jul;41(7):4817-25. doi: 10.1007/s11033-014-3352-x. Epub 2014
Apr 6.

An insight into the genes involved in secoiridoid biosynthesis in Gentiana
macrophylla by RNA-seq.

Hua W(1), Zheng P, He Y, Cui L, Kong W, Wang Z.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of the Ministry of Education for Medicinal Resources and
Natural Pharmaceutical Chemistry, National Engineering Laboratory for Resource
Development of Endangered Crude Drugs in Northwest of China, College of Life
Sciences, Shaanxi Normal University, Xi'an, 710062, People's Republic of China.

The dried root of Gentiana macrophylla is a well-known traditional Chinese herbal
medicine for treating jaundice, hepatitis, and stomachic and choleretic ailments.
However, natural sources are now in short supply. A lack of information about its
genetic background has been a great hindrance to producing its active
constituents via genetic engineering. We performed RNA-seq to obtain 42,918
unigenes (average length = 667 bp) in its transcriptome. Of these, 32,141 (74.89 
%) were annotated and 2,339 unigenes were assigned to secondary-metabolite
pathways. In all, 114 putative unigenes involved in secoiridoid biosynthesis were
identified in our transcriptome library. A Blast X search against the Arabidopsis
gene regulatory information server showed that 4,413 unigenes are homologous to
transcription factor genes from Arabidopsis. Organ-specific genes and candidate
gene expression profiles were also investigated with digital gene expression
technology. Quantitative PCR was used to verify the expression patterns of
several novel transcripts involved in secoiridoid biosynthesis. Our results not
only enrich the gene resource but will also benefit research into the molecular
genetics and functional genomics of this species.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-014-3352-x 
PMID: 24706059  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Prev Vet Med. 2014 Jul 1;115(1-2):48-55. doi: 10.1016/j.prevetmed.2014.03.004.
Epub 2014 Mar 16.

A longitudinal study of the role of Dichelobacter nodosus and Fusobacterium
necrophorum load in initiation and severity of footrot in sheep.

Witcomb LA(1), Green LE(2), Kaler J(3), Ul-Hassan A(2), Calvo-Bado LA(2), Medley 
GF(2), Grogono-Thomas R(4), Wellington EM(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences, University of Warwick, Gibbet Hill Campus, Coventry, 
UK; UCL School of Pharmacy, University College London, 29-39 Brunswick Square,
London, UK. Electronic address: l.witcomb@ucl.ac.uk. (2)School of Life Sciences, 
University of Warwick, Gibbet Hill Campus, Coventry, UK. (3)School of Life
Sciences, University of Warwick, Gibbet Hill Campus, Coventry, UK; School of
Veterinary Medicine and Science, University of Nottingham, Sutton Bonington
Campus, Leicestershire, UK. (4)School of Veterinary Sciences, University of
Bristol, Langford House, Langford, UK.

Comment in
    Prev Vet Med. 2014 Nov 1;117(1):314.
    Prev Vet Med. 2014 Nov 1;117(1):313.

Footrot is an infectious bacterial disease of sheep that causes lameness. The
causal agent is Dichelobacter nodosus. There is debate regarding the role of
Fusobacterium necrophorum in disease initiation. This research used an
observational longitudinal study of footrot, together with quantitative PCR
(qPCR) of bacterial load of D. nodosus and F. necrophorum, to elucidate the roles
of each species in the development of disease. All feet of 18 a priori selected
sheep were monitored for five weeks assessing disease severity (healthy,
interdigital dermatitis (ID) and severe footrot (SFR)) and bacterial load. A
multinomial model was used to analyse these data. Key unadjusted results were
that D. nodosus was detected more frequently on feet with ID, whereas F.
necrophorum was detected more frequently on feet with SFR. In the multinomial
model, ID was associated with increasing log10 load of D. nodosus the week of
observation (OR=1.28 (95% CI=1.08-1.53)) and the week prior to development of ID 
(OR=1.20 (95% CI=1.01-1.42). There was no association between log10 load(2) of F.
necrophorum and presence of ID (OR=0.99 (95% CI=0.96-1.02))). SFR was associated 
with increasing log10 load of D. nodosus the week before disease onset (OR=1.42
(95% CI=1.02-1.96)) but not once SFR had occurred. SFR was positively associated 
with log10 load(2) of F. necrophorum once disease was present (OR=1.06 (95%
CI=1.01-1.11)). In summary, there was an increased risk of increasing D. nodosus 
load the week prior to development of ID and SFR and during an episode of ID. In 
contrast, F. necrophorum load was not associated with ID before or during an
episode, and was only associated with SFR once present. These results contribute 
to our understanding of the epidemiology of footrot and highlight that D. nodosus
load plays the primary role in disease initiation and progression, with F.
necrophorum load playing a secondary role. Further studies in more flocks and
climates would be useful to confirm these findings. This study identifies that D.
nodosus load is highest during ID. This supports previous epidemiological
findings, which demonstrate that controlling ID is the most effective management 
strategy to prevent new cases of ID and SFR.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prevetmed.2014.03.004 
PMCID: PMC4029074
PMID: 24703249  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Anal Chem. 2014 May 6;86(9):4387-94. doi: 10.1021/ac500208w. Epub 2014 Apr 22.

Comparative study of sensitivity, linearity, and resistance to inhibition of
digital and nondigital polymerase chain reaction and loop mediated isothermal
amplification assays for quantification of human cytomegalovirus.

Nixon G(1), Garson JA, Grant P, Nastouli E, Foy CA, Huggett JF.

Author information: 
(1)LGC , Queens Road, Teddington, Middlesex TW11 0LY, United Kingdom.

Performing nucleic acid amplification techniques (NAATs) in digital format using 
limiting dilution provides potential advantages that have recently been
demonstrated with digital polymerase chain reaction (dPCR). Key benefits that
have been claimed are the ability to quantify nucleic acids without the need of
an external calibrator and a greater resistance to inhibitors than real-time
quantitative PCR (qPCR). In this study, we evaluated the performance of four
NAATs, qPCR, dPCR, real-time quantitative loop mediated isothermal amplification 
(qLAMP), and digital LAMP (dLAMP), for the detection and quantification of human 
cytomegalovirus (hCMV). We used various DNA templates and inhibitors to compare
the performance of these methods using a conventional real-time thermocycler
platform (Bio-Rad CFX96) and a chip based digital platform (Fluidigm Biomark
12.765 Digital Array). dPCR performed well and demonstrated greater resistance to
inhibitors than the other methods although this resistance did not apply equally 
to all inhibitors tested. dLAMP was found to be less sensitive than dPCR, but its
quantitative performance was better than qLAMP, the latter being unable to
quantify below 1000 copies. dLAMP was also more resistant to inhibitors than
qLAMP. Unlike qPCR, both digital methods were able to quantify viral genomes
without requiring a calibrator; however, neither can currently compete with the
large reaction volumes, and thus the greater absolute sensitivity, of qPCR. With 
the introduction of digital instrumentation that will enable larger reaction
volumes, digital amplification methods such as those evaluated in this study
could potentially offer a robust alternative to qPCR for nucleic acid
quantification.

DOI: 10.1021/ac500208w 
PMID: 24684191  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Ann Rheum Dis. 2015 Aug;74(8):1596-602. doi: 10.1136/annrheumdis-2013-204924.
Epub 2014 Mar 26.

BRAFV600E-mutation is invariably present and associated to oncogene-induced
senescence in Erdheim-Chester disease.

Cangi MG(1), Biavasco R(2), Cavalli G(3), Grassini G(1), Dal-Cin E(1),
Campochiaro C(3), Guglielmi B(4), Berti A(3), Lampasona V(5), von Deimling A(6), 
Sabbadini MG(3), Ferrarini M(7), Doglioni C(8), Dagna L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Pathology, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy.
(2)Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, Milan, Italy. (3)Vita-Salute San Raffaele
University, Milan, Italy Unit of Medicine and Clinical Immunology, IRCCS San
Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy. (4)Unit of Medicine and Clinical
Immunology, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy. (5)Center for 
Translational Genomics and Bioinformatics, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific
Institute, Milan, Italy. (6)Department of Neuropathology, Heidelberg University, 
and CCU Neuropathology, DKFZ, Heidelberg, Germany. (7)Unit of Biology of Myeloma,
IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy. (8)Unit of Pathology,
IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy Vita-Salute San Raffaele
University, Milan, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: Erdheim-Chester disease (ECD) is a rare form of histiocytosis
characterised by uncontrolled chronic inflammation. The oncogenic BRAF(V600E)
mutation has been reported in biopsies in 19 out of 37 patients with ECD from the
largest published cohort, but never found in the patients' peripheral blood.
Also, the role of the mutation in the pathogenesis of the disease has not been
elucidated yet. BRAF(V600E) has been associated with oncogene-induced senescence 
(OIS), a protective mechanism against oncogenic events, characterised by the
induction of proinflammatory pathways.
METHODS: We verified the BRAF status in biopsies and peripheral blood from 18
patients with ECD from our cohort and matched controls by means of
immunohistochemistry and of an ultrasensitive assay, based on the combination of 
a locked nucleic acid PCR and pyrosequencing. Droplet digital PCR was used to
confirm the findings. We also evaluated the presence of senescence markers in ECD
histiocytes.
RESULTS: BRAF(V600E) mutation was present in all the biopsy and peripheral blood 
samples from patients with ECD and in none of the controls. ECD histiocytes and a
fraction of circulating monocytes from patients with ECD showed signs of a
constitutive activation of the MAPK pathway. Moreover, BRAF-mutated histiocytes
expressed markers of OIS.
CONCLUSIONS: The oncogenic BRAF(V600E) mutation is present in biopsies and in the
peripheral blood from all patients with ECD who were evaluated and is associated 
with OIS. These findings have significant implications for the pathogenesis,
diagnosis and treatment of ECD.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/annrheumdis-2013-204924 
PMID: 24671772  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 24;9(3):e92328. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0092328. eCollection
2014.

Coinfection of human herpesviruses 6A (HHV-6A) and HHV-6B as demonstrated by
novel digital droplet PCR assay.

Leibovitch EC(1), Brunetto GS(2), Caruso B(2), Fenton K(2), Ohayon J(2), Reich
DS(2), Jacobson S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroimmunology Branch, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, United States of
America; Institute for Biomedical Sciences, School of Medicine and Health
Sciences of The George Washington University, Washington, DC, United States of
America. (2)Neuroimmunology Branch, National Institute of Neurological Disorders 
and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, United States of
America.

The human herpesviruses HHV-6A and HHV-6B have been associated with various
neurologic disorders partly due to the detection of elevated viral DNA levels in 
patients compared to controls. However the reported frequency of these viruses
varies widely, likely reflecting differences in PCR methodologies used for
detection. Digital droplet PCR (ddPCR) is a third generation PCR technology that 
enables the absolute quantification of target DNA molecules. Mounting evidence of
the biological differences between HHV-6A and HHV-6B has led to their recent
reclassification as separate species. As it is now especially relevant to
investigate each virus, our objectives were to first design a multiplex HHV-6A
and HHV-6B ddPCR assay and then to investigate the incidence of HHV-6A and HHV-6B
coinfection in samples from healthy donors and patients with MS, a disease in
which HHV-6 is thought to play a role. In our assessment of healthy donors, we
observed a heretofore-underappreciated high frequency of coinfection in PBMC and 
serum, and found that our assay precisely detects both HHV-6A and HHV-6B
chromosomally integrated virus, which has important implications in clinical
settings. Interestingly, upon comparing the saliva from MS patients and healthy
donors, we detected a significantly elevated frequency of coinfection in MS
saliva; increased detection of HHV-6A in MS patients is consistent with other
studies suggesting that this viral species (thought to be more neurotropic than
HHV-6B) is more prevalent among MS patients compared to healthy donors. As the
biology and disease associations between these two viral species differ,
identifying and quantifying both species of HHV-6 may provide clinically relevant
information, as well as enhance our understanding of the roles of each in health 
and disease.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0092328 
PMCID: PMC3963908
PMID: 24663487  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Int J Mol Sci. 2014 Mar 21;15(3):5079-93. doi: 10.3390/ijms15035079.

Differential transcriptome analysis between Paulownia fortunei and its
synthesized autopolyploid.

Zhang X(1), Deng M(2), Fan G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Paulownia, Henan Agricultural University, 95 Wenhua Road, Jinsui 
District, Zhengzhou 450002, Henan, China. abf1232@163.com. (2)Institute of
Paulownia, Henan Agricultural University, 95 Wenhua Road, Jinsui District,
Zhengzhou 450002, Henan, China. dengmj1980@126.com. (3)Institute of Paulownia,
Henan Agricultural University, 95 Wenhua Road, Jinsui District, Zhengzhou 450002,
Henan, China. guoqiangfan_hnau@126.com.

Paulownia fortunei is an ecologically and economically important tree species
that is widely used as timber and chemical pulp. Its autotetraploid, which
carries a number of valuable traits, was successfully induced with colchicine. To
identify differences in gene expression between P. fortunei and its synthesized
autotetraploid, we performed transcriptome sequencing using an Illumina Genome
Analyzer IIx (GAIIx). About 94.8 million reads were generated and assembled into 
383,056 transcripts, including 18,984 transcripts with a complete open reading
frame. A conducted Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST) search indicated
that 16,004 complete transcripts had significant hits in the National Center for 
Biotechnology Information (NCBI) non-redundant database. The complete transcripts
were given functional assignments using three public protein databases. One
thousand one hundred fifty eight differentially expressed complete transcripts
were screened through a digital abundance analysis, including transcripts
involved in energy metabolism and epigenetic regulation. Finally, the expression 
levels of several transcripts were confirmed by quantitative real-time PCR. Our
results suggested that polyploidization caused epigenetic-related changes, which 
subsequently resulted in gene expression variation between diploid and
autotetraploid P. fortunei. This might be the main mechanism affected by the
polyploidization. Our results represent an extensive survey of the P. fortunei
transcriptome and will facilitate subsequent functional genomics research in P.
fortunei. Moreover, the gene expression profiles of P. fortunei and its
autopolyploid will provide a valuable resource for the study of polyploidization.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms15035079 
PMCID: PMC3975441
PMID: 24663058  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Clin Cancer Res. 2014 May 15;20(10):2505-7. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-14-0370.
Epub 2014 Mar 21.

Minimal residual disease in breast cancer: in blood veritas.

Siravegna G(1), Bardelli A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Authors' Affiliations: Department of Oncology, University of Turin; Candiolo
Cancer Institute-FPO, IRCCS, Turin; and FIRC Institute of Molecular Oncology
(IFOM), Milan, ItalyAuthors' Affiliations: Department of Oncology, University of 
Turin; Candiolo Cancer Institute-FPO, IRCCS, Turin; and FIRC Institute of
Molecular Oncology (IFOM), Milan, Italy. (2)Authors' Affiliations: Department of 
Oncology, University of Turin; Candiolo Cancer Institute-FPO, IRCCS, Turin; and
FIRC Institute of Molecular Oncology (IFOM), Milan, ItalyAuthors' Affiliations:
Department of Oncology, University of Turin; Candiolo Cancer Institute-FPO,
IRCCS, Turin; and FIRC Institute of Molecular Oncology (IFOM), Milan,
ItalyAuthors' Affiliations: Department of Oncology, University of Turin; Candiolo
Cancer Institute-FPO, IRCCS, Turin; and FIRC Institute of Molecular Oncology
(IFOM), Milan, Italy alberto.bardelli@ircc.it.

Comment on
    Clin Cancer Res. 2014 May 15;20(10):2643-50.

A blood-based molecular test might direct recommendations for systemic therapies 
in patients with early-stage breast cancer undergoing surgery with curative
intent. A new study suggests that droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) can be used to
detect cancer-specific DNA alterations in plasma with sensitivity suitable for
monitoring minimal residual disease.

©2014 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-14-0370 
PMID: 24658155  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. BMC Plant Biol. 2014 Mar 22;14:71. doi: 10.1186/1471-2229-14-71.

Genes associated with agronomic traits in non-heading Chinese cabbage identified 
by expression profiling.

Song X, Li Y, Liu T, Duan W, Huang Z, Wang L, Tan H, Hou X(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Crop Genetics and Germplasm Enhancement/Key Laboratory
of Biology and Germplasm Enhancement of Horticultural Crops in East China,
Ministry of Agriculture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095, China. 
hxl@njau.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: The genomes of non-heading Chinese cabbage (Brassica rapa ssp.
chinensis), heading Chinese cabbage (Brassica rapa ssp. pekinensis) and their
close relative Arabidopsis thaliana have provided important resources for
studying the evolution and genetic improvement of cruciferous plants. Natural
growing conditions present these plants with a variety of physiological
challenges for which they have a repertoire of genes that ensure adaptability and
normal growth. We investigated the differential expressions of genes that control
adaptability and development in plants growing in the natural environment to
study underlying mechanisms of their expression.
RESULTS: Using digital gene expression tag profiling, we constructed an
expression profile to identify genes related to important agronomic traits under 
natural growing conditions. Among three non-heading Chinese cabbage cultivars, we
found thousands of genes that exhibited significant differences in expression
levels at five developmental stages. Through comparative analysis and previous
reports, we identified several candidate genes associated with late flowering,
cold tolerance, self-incompatibility, and leaf color. Two genes related to cold
tolerance were verified using quantitative real-time PCR.
CONCLUSIONS: We identified a large number of genes associated with important
agronomic traits of non-heading Chinese cabbage. This analysis will provide a
wealth of resources for molecular-assisted breeding of cabbage. The raw data and 
detailed results of this analysis are available at the website
http://nhccdata.njau.edu.cn.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2229-14-71 
PMCID: PMC3998049
PMID: 24655567  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Expert Rev Mol Diagn. 2014 Apr;14(3):253-6. doi: 10.1586/14737159.2014.897609.

Will droplet digital PCR become the test of choice for detecting and quantifying 
ocular Chlamydia trachomatis infection? Maybe.

Roberts CH(1), Last A, Burr SE, Bailey RL, Mabey DC, Holland MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Research Department, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, 
London WC1E 7HT, UK.

Comment on
    Expert Rev Mol Diagn. 2013 Nov;13(8):789-92.

DOI: 10.1586/14737159.2014.897609 
PMID: 24649815  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Zhonghua Wei Zhong Bing Ji Jiu Yi Xue. 2014 Jan;26(1):17-22.

[Protective effect of necrostatin-1 on the liver of rats with trauma induced
hemorrhagic shock].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang L, Cui Y, Wang B, Yu J, Wang Y, Wang Y.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effects of necrostatin-1( Nec-1) on the liver of
rats with trauma induced hemorrhagic shock.
METHODS: Trauma induced hemorrhagic shock model was produced by adopting the left
femur, tibia fracture and soft tissue injury, bleeding and reperfusion in male
Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats. A total of 22 rats were divided into model group and
Nec-1 group with 11 rats in each group by randomized digital number method and
the 72-hour mortality was observed. In addition, 72 rats were randomly divided
into sham group, model group, Nec-1 group with 24 rats in each group. Rats in
sham group were only received anesthesia, separating a nd ligating blood vessels,
without trauma induced hemorrhagic and reperfusion, and the rats in Nec-1 group
were received 1 mg/kg Nec-1 through femoral vein 5 minutes before reperfusion,
and the rats in Nec-1 group were received the same amount of solvent. The serum
and liver tissues of each group were collected at 2, 4, 8 hours after
reperfusion. Serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase 
(AST) were detected by automatic biochemistry analyzer. The pathology changes in 
liver were observed by hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining. The mRNA expressions of
tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and interleukin -1β (IL-1β) in the liver were
determined by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The
protein expressions of receptor interaction of protease 1/3( RIP1/RIP3) were also
assessed by Western blot analysis.
RESULTS: Compared to the model group, Nec-1 significantly reduced the 72 hour
mortality [18.18% (2/11) vs. 63.64% (7/11), P = 0.040]. Two hours after trauma
induced hemorrhagic shock and reperfusion, the expressions of ALT and AST in
model group were significantly increased compared with those in sham group. [ ALT
(U/L): 110.21 ± 22.32 vs. 80.98 ± 19.94, AST (U/L): 364.29 ± 64.83 vs. 279.76 ±
70.64, both P<0.05], and reached the peak at 8 hours [ALT (U/L): 387.41± 47.11
vs. 82.76 ±22.44, AST ( U/L): 973.35 ±77.51 vs.261.49 ± 52.03, both P <0.01].
Levels of serum ALT and AST in NEc-1 group were significantly decreased compared 
with model group [ALT (U/L) 4 hours: 144.64 ± 33.79 vs. 213.96 ± 36.21, 8 hours: 
159.48 ± 43.57 vs. 387.41>11; AST (U/L): 4 hours: 398.78 ± 59.48 vs. 630.61 ±
59.93, 8 hours: 427.38 ± 80.75 vs. 973.35 ± 77.51, all P < 0.01] Under light
microscopy, it was noted that the hepatic sinus expansion, liver cells
degeneration, necrosis, as well as infiltration of abundant inflammatory cells
were observed. But the pathology changes in hepatic tissues were significantly
mitigated in Nec-1 group. Along with the time extension, the mRNA expressions of 
TNF-α and IL-β and the protein expressions of RIP1 and RIP3 were markedly
up-regulated. Compared with model group, difference in the mRNA expressions of
TNF-α and IL-β in hepatic tissues in Nec-1 group were statistically significant, 
and the most obvious difference was at 8 hours [TNF-α mRNA: 1.457 ± 0.081 vs.
2.317 ± 0.062, IL-β mRNA: 0.690 ± 0.087 vs. 1.812 ± 0.112, both P<0.01]. But
there was no statistically significant difference in RIP1 and RIP3 between Nec-1 
group and model group [RIP1 protein 8 hours: 0.561 ± 0.033 vs. 0.587 ± 0.036,
RIP3 protein 8 hours: 0.976 ± 0.040 vs. 1.044 ± 0.115, both P > 0.05].
CONCLUSION: Nec-1 may be remarkable protect effect on the liver of rats with
trauma induced hemorrhage shock and reperfusion, and the intrinsic mechanisms
need further investigation.


PMID: 24649521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Int J Biol Sci. 2014 Feb 19;10(3):257-67. doi: 10.7150/ijbs.7629. eCollection
2014.

Gene expression profiling in winged and wingless cotton aphids, Aphis gossypii
(Hemiptera: Aphididae).

Yang X(1), Liu X(1), Xu X(1), Li Z(1), Li Y(1), Song D(2), Yu T(2), Zhu F(2),
Zhang Q(1), Zhou X(2).

Author information: 
(1)1. Department of Entomology, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100193,
China. (2)2. Department of Entomology, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY
40546-0091, USA.

While trade-offs between flight capability and reproduction is a common
phenomenon in wing dimorphic insects, the molecular basis is largely unknown. In 
this study, we examined the transcriptomic differences between winged and
wingless morphs of cotton aphids, Aphis gossypii, using a tag-based digital gene 
expression (DGE) approach. Ultra high-throughput Illumina sequencing generated
5.30 and 5.39 million raw tags, respectively, from winged and wingless A.
gossypii DGE libraries. We identified 1,663 differentially expressed transcripts,
among which 58 were highly expressed in the winged A. gossypii, whereas 1,605
expressed significantly higher in the wingless morphs. Bioinformatics tools,
including Gene Ontology, Cluster of Orthologous Groups, euKaryotic Orthologous
Groups and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathways, were used to
functionally annotate these transcripts. In addition, 20 differentially expressed
transcripts detected by DGE were validated by the quantitative real-time PCR.
Comparative transcriptomic analysis of sedentary (wingless) and migratory
(winged) A. gossyii not only advances our understanding of the trade-offs in wing
dimorphic insects, but also provides a candidate molecular target for the genetic
control of this agricultural insect pest.

DOI: 10.7150/ijbs.7629 
PMCID: PMC3957081
PMID: 24644424  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Int J Cancer. 2014 Nov 1;135(9):2024-33. doi: 10.1002/ijc.28848. Epub 2014 Mar
28.

Cancer-associated fibroblast promote transmigration through endothelial brain
cells in three-dimensional in vitro models.

Choi YP(1), Lee JH, Gao MQ, Kim BG, Kang S, Kim SH, Cho NH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, National Creative Research Center for Biofunctional
Molecules, Yonsei University, Seoul, Korea; Department of Chemistry, Brain Korea 
21 PLUS Project, Yonsei University, Seoul, Korea.

Brain metastases are associated with high morbidity as well as with poor
prognosis and survival in breast cancer patients. Despite its clinical
importance, metastasis of breast cancer cells through the blood-brain barrier
(BBB) is poorly understood. The objective of our study was to investigate whether
cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) play crucial roles in breast cancer brain
metastasis. Using a cell adhesion assays, in vitro BBB permeability and
transmigration assays and soft agar colony formation assays, we investigated the 
physical roles of CAFs in breast cancer brain metastasis. We also performed
immunofluorescence, flow cytometric analysis, Droplet Digital PCR and Simon™
Simple Western System to confirm changes in expression levels. We established two
novel three-dimensional (3D) culture systems using a perpendicular slide chamber 
and applying 3D embedded culture method to reflect brain metastasis conditions.
With a newly developed device, CAFs was proven to promote cell adhesion to human 
brain microvascular endothelial cells, in vitro BBB permeability and
transmigration and colony formation of breast cancer cells. Furthermore, CAFs
enhanced the invasive migration of breast cancer cells in two kinds of 3D
cultures. These 3D models also reliably recapitulate the initial steps of BBB
transmigration, micro-metastasis and colonization. Expression of integrin α5β1
and αvβ3, c-MET and α2,6-siayltransferase was increased in breast cancer cells
that migrated through the BBB. In conclusion, based on our in vitro BBB and
co-culture models, our data suggest that CAFs may play a role in breast cancer
brain metastasis.

© 2014 UICC.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.28848 
PMID: 24643985  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Anal Biochem. 2014 May 1;452:103-13. doi: 10.1016/j.ab.2014.03.001. Epub 2014 Mar
11.

Validation of high-throughput single cell analysis methodology.

Devonshire AS(1), Baradez MO(2), Morley G(2), Marshall D(2), Foy CA(2).

Author information: 
(1)LGC, Teddington, Middlesex TW11 0LY, UK. Electronic address:
alison.devonshire@lgcgroup.com. (2)LGC, Teddington, Middlesex TW11 0LY, UK.

High-throughput quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) approaches enable
profiling of multiple genes in single cells, bringing new insights to complex
biological processes and offering opportunities for single cell-based monitoring 
of cancer cells and stem cell-based therapies. However, workflows with
well-defined sources of variation are required for clinical diagnostics and
testing of tissue-engineered products. In a study of neural stem cell lines, we
investigated the performance of lysis, reverse transcription (RT),
preamplification (PA), and nanofluidic qPCR steps at the single cell level in
terms of efficiency, precision, and limit of detection. We compared protocols
using a separate lysis buffer with cell capture directly in RT-PA reagent. The
two methods were found to have similar lysis efficiencies, whereas the direct
RT-PA approach showed improved precision. Digital PCR was used to relate
preamplified template copy numbers to Cq values and reveal where low-quality
signals may affect the analysis. We investigated the impact of calibration and
data normalization strategies as a means of minimizing the impact of
inter-experimental variation on gene expression values and found that both
approaches can improve data comparability. This study provides validation and
guidance for the application of high-throughput qPCR workflows for gene
expression profiling of single cells.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ab.2014.03.001 
PMID: 24631519  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1001. Leuk Res. 2014 May;38(5):581-5. doi: 10.1016/j.leukres.2014.02.005. Epub 2014 Feb
18.

Use of a high sensitive nanofluidic array for the detection of rare copies of
BCR-ABL1 transcript in patients with Philadelphia-positive acute lymphoblastic
leukemia in complete response.

Iacobucci I(1), Lonetti A(2), Venturi C(1), Ferrari A(1), Papayannidis C(1),
Ottaviani E(1), Abbenante MC(1), Paolini S(1), Bresciani P(3), Potenza L(3),
Parisi S(1), Cattina F(4), Soverini S(1), Russo D(5), Luppi M(3), Martinelli
G(6).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Hematology "L. e A. Seràgnoli", Department of Experimental,
Diagnostic and Specialty Medicine, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(2)Department of Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences, University of Bologna,
Bologna, Italy. (3)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, Azienda
Ospedaliero-Universitaria Policlinico, University of Modena and Reggio Emilia,
Modena, Italy. (4)Institute of Hematology "L. e A. Seràgnoli", Department of
Experimental, Diagnostic and Specialty Medicine, University of Bologna, Bologna, 
Italy; Hematology, University of Brescia, Brescia, Italy. (5)Hematology,
University of Brescia, Brescia, Italy. (6)Institute of Hematology "L. e A.
Seràgnoli", Department of Experimental, Diagnostic and Specialty Medicine,
University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy. Electronic address:
giovanni.martinelli2@unibo.it.

Monitoring of minimal residual disease (MRD) by quantification of BCR-ABL1
transcript levels has become a main part of the management of patients with
BCR-ABL1-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in treatment with tyrosine
kinase inhibitors (TKIs). The failure to achieve molecular negativity shortly
after starting TKI has been demonstrated to be predictive of relapse, suggesting 
that an accurate measurement of low BCR-ABL1 levels may have a role in preventing
hematological relapse. Despite the big efforts made by many European laboratories
within the European Study Group, at the time of writing a standardized procedure 
to quantify and express results is still missing for BCR-ABL1-positive ALL. In
this study, in order to detect with high sensitivity low levels of BCR-ABL1
transcripts, we used a new technology and a new molecular approach based on
microfluidic digital polymerase chain reaction (dPCR) using Taqman chemistry and 
we compared obtained results with those generated by the conventional method
based on reverse transcriptase PCR reaction (RQ-PCR) for BCR-ABL1 and total ABL1,
with TaqMan chemistry and with Applied Biosystems instrument. We demonstrated the
dPCR is high-sensitive (able to detect a single copy of BCR-ABL1) and reliable
(results are comparable to those obtained by BCR-ABL1 quantification with
conventional technology), allowing an accurate monitoring of BCR-ABL1-positive
ALL patients in complete remission.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.leukres.2014.02.005 
PMID: 24630366  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1002. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2014 May;80(10):3086-94. doi: 10.1128/AEM.04137-13. Epub 
2014 Mar 7.

Improved HF183 quantitative real-time PCR assay for characterization of human
fecal pollution in ambient surface water samples.

Green HC(1), Haugland RA, Varma M, Millen HT, Borchardt MA, Field KG, Walters WA,
Knight R, Sivaganesan M, Kelty CA, Shanks OC.

Author information: 
(1)U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Research and Development,
National Risk Management and Research Laboratory, Cincinnati, Ohio, USA.

Quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) assays that target the human-associated HF183
bacterial cluster within members of the genus Bacteroides are among the most
widely used methods for the characterization of human fecal pollution in ambient 
surface waters. In this study, we show that a current TaqMan HF183 qPCR assay
(HF183/BFDrev) routinely forms nonspecific amplification products and introduce a
modified TaqMan assay (HF183/BacR287) that alleviates this problem. The
performance of each qPCR assay was compared in head-to-head experiments
investigating limits of detection, analytical precision, predicted hybridization 
to 16S rRNA gene sequences from a reference database, and relative marker
concentrations in fecal and sewage samples. The performance of the modified
HF183/BacR287 assay is equal to or improves upon that of the original
HF183/BFDrev assay. In addition, a qPCR chemistry designed to combat
amplification inhibition and a multiplexed internal amplification control are
included. In light of the expanding use of PCR-based methods that rely on the
detection of extremely low concentrations of DNA template, such as qPCR and
digital PCR, the new TaqMan HF183/BacR287 assay should provide more accurate
estimations of human-derived fecal contaminants in ambient surface waters.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.04137-13 
PMCID: PMC4018914
PMID: 24610857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1003. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 7;9(3):e90895. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0090895. eCollection 
2014.

Scanning of transposable elements and analyzing expression of transposase genes
of sweet potato [Ipomoea batatas].

Yan L(1), Gu YH(1), Tao X(2), Lai XJ(1), Zhang YZ(1), Tan XM(1), Wang H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Bio-resources and Eco-environment, Ministry of Education,
Sichuan Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, Center for
Functional Genomics and Bioinformatics, College of Life Sciences, Sichuan
University, Chengdu, Sichuan, People's Republic of China. (2)Chengdu Institute of
Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Chengdu, Sichuan, People's Republic of
China.

BACKGROUND: Transposable elements (TEs) are the most abundant genomic components 
in eukaryotes and affect the genome by their replications and movements to
generate genetic plasticity. Sweet potato performs asexual reproduction generally
and the TEs may be an important genetic factor for genome reorganization.
Complete identification of TEs is essential for the study of genome evolution.
However, the TEs of sweet potato are still poorly understood because of its
complex hexaploid genome and difficulty in genome sequencing. The recent
availability of the sweet potato transcriptome databases provides an opportunity 
for discovering and characterizing the expressed TEs.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We first established the integrated-transcriptome
database by de novo assembling four published sweet potato transcriptome
databases from three cultivars in China. Using sequence-similarity search and
analysis, a total of 1,405 TEs including 883 retrotransposons and 522 DNA
transposons were predicted and categorized. Depending on mapping sets of RNA-Seq 
raw short reads to the predicted TEs, we compared the quantities, classifications
and expression activities of TEs inter- and intra-cultivars. Moreover, the
differential expressions of TEs in seven tissues of Xushu 18 cultivar were
analyzed by using Illumina digital gene expression (DGE) tag profiling. It was
found that 417 TEs were expressed in one or more tissues and 107 in all seven
tissues. Furthermore, the copy number of 11 transposase genes was determined to
be 1-3 copies in the genome of sweet potato by Real-time PCR-based absolute
quantification.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Our result provides a new method for TE searching on
species with transcriptome sequences while lacking genome information. The
searching, identification and expression analysis of TEs will provide useful TE
information in sweet potato, which are valuable for the further studies of
TE-mediated gene mutation and optimization in asexual reproduction. It
contributes to elucidating the roles of TEs in genome evolution.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0090895 
PMCID: PMC3946583
PMID: 24608103  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1004. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 6;9(6):e90842. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0090842. eCollection 
2014.

Transcriptome analysis of differentially expressed genes relevant to variegation 
in peach flowers.

Chen Y(1), Mao Y(1), Liu H(1), Yu F(2), Li S(1), Yin T(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Southern Modern Forestry Collaborative Innovation Center, Nanjing Forestry
University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China. (2)Institute of Biology and Resources,
Jiangxi Academy of Sciences, Nanchang, Jiangxi, China.

BACKGROUND: Variegation in flower color is commonly observed in many plant
species and also occurs on ornamental peaches (Prunus persica f. versicolor
[Sieb.] Voss). Variegated plants are highly valuable in the floricultural market.
To gain a global perspective on genes differentially expressed in variegated
peach flowers, we performed large-scale transcriptome sequencing of white and red
petals separately collected from a variegated peach tree.
RESULTS: A total of 1,556,597 high-quality reads were obtained, with an average
read length of 445 bp. The ESTs were assembled into 16,530 contigs and 42,050
singletons. The resulting unigenes covered about 60% of total predicted genes in 
the peach genome. These unigenes were further subjected to functional annotation 
and biochemical pathway analysis. Digital expression analysis identified a total 
of 514 genes differentially expressed between red and white flower petals. Since 
peach flower coloration is determined by the expression and regulation of
structural genes relevant to flavonoid biosynthesis, a detailed examination
detected four key structural genes, including C4H, CHS, CHI and F3H, expressed at
a significantly higher level in red than in white petal. Except for the
structural genes, we also detected 11 differentially expressed regulatory genes
relating to flavonoid biosynthesis. Using the differentially expressed structural
genes as the test objects, we validated the digital expression results by using
quantitative real-time PCR, and the differential expression of C4H, CHS and F3H
were confirmed.
CONCLUSION: In this study, we generated a large EST collection from flower petals
of a variegated peach. By digital expression analysis, we identified an
informative list of candidate genes associated with variegation in peach flowers,
which offered a unique opportunity to uncover the genetic mechanisms underlying
flower color variegation.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0090842 
PMCID: PMC3948169
PMID: 24603808  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1005. J Virol Methods. 2014 Jun;202:46-53. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2014.02.020. Epub
2014 Mar 2.

Low copy target detection by Droplet Digital PCR through application of a novel
open access bioinformatic pipeline, 'definetherain'.

Jones M(1), Williams J(1), Gärtner K(2), Phillips R(3), Hurst J(4), Frater J(5).

Author information: 
(1)Peter Medawar Building for Pathogen Research, Nuffield Department of Clinical 
Medicine, Oxford, UK. (2)Peter Medawar Building for Pathogen Research, Nuffield
Department of Clinical Medicine, Oxford, UK; IUH, Hôpital St. Louis, Paris,
France. (3)Peter Medawar Building for Pathogen Research, Nuffield Department of
Clinical Medicine, Oxford, UK; Institute for Emerging Infections, The Oxford
Martin School, Oxford, UK; Oxford National Institute of Health Research
Biomedical Research Centre, Oxford, UK. (4)Peter Medawar Building for Pathogen
Research, Nuffield Department of Clinical Medicine, Oxford, UK; Institute for
Emerging Infections, The Oxford Martin School, Oxford, UK. (5)Peter Medawar
Building for Pathogen Research, Nuffield Department of Clinical Medicine, Oxford,
UK; Institute for Emerging Infections, The Oxford Martin School, Oxford, UK;
Oxford National Institute of Health Research Biomedical Research Centre, Oxford, 
UK. Electronic address: john.frater@ndm.ox.ac.uk.

Droplet Digital PCR (ddPCR) represents a new and alternative platform to
conventional quantitative-PCR (qPCR) for the quantitation of DNA templates.
However, the proposed improvement in sensitivity and reproducibility offered by
ddPCR is not yet fully proven, partly because the delineation between positive
and negative responses is not always clear. Data are presented demonstrating the 
sensitivity of the ddPCR system to both reagent concentrations and choice of
cut-off for defining positive and negative results. By implementing k-nearest
clustering, cut-offs are produced that improve the accuracy of ddPCR where target
DNA is present at low copy numbers, a key application of ddPCR. This approach is 
applied to human albumin and HIV-1 proviral DNA ddPCR quantitative protocols.
This tool is coded in JavaScript and has been made available for free in a web
browser at http://www.definetherain.org.uk. Optimisation of the analyses of raw
ddPCR data using 'definetherain' indicates that low target number detection can
be improved by its implementation. Further application to patient samples will
help define the clinical utility of this approach.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2014.02.020 
PMCID: PMC4003534
PMID: 24598230  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1006. Genome Med. 2014 Mar 5;6(3):20. doi: 10.1186/gm537. eCollection 2014.

Killer-cell Immunoglobulin-like Receptor gene linkage and copy number variation
analysis by droplet digital PCR.

Roberts CH(1), Jiang W(2), Jayaraman J(2), Trowsdale J(2), Holland MJ(1),
Traherne JA(2).

Author information: 
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Keppel St, London WC1E 7HT,
UK. (2)Cambridge Institute for Medical Research, Addenbrooke's Hospital,
Cambridge CB2 0XY, UK ; Division of Immunology, Department of Pathology,
University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 1QP, UK.

The Killer-cell Immunoglobulin-like Receptor (KIR) gene complex has considerable 
biomedical importance. Patterns of polymorphism in the KIR region include
variability in the gene content of haplotypes and diverse structural
arrangements. Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) was used to identify different
haplotype motifs and to enumerate KIR copy number variants (CNVs). ddPCR detected
a variety of KIR haplotype configurations in DNA from well-characterized cell
lines. Mendelian segregation of ddPCR-estimated KIR2DL5 CNVs was observed in
Gambian families and CNV typing of other KIRs was shown to be accurate when
compared to an established quantitative PCR method.

DOI: 10.1186/gm537 
PMCID: PMC4062048
PMID: 24597950 


1007. Clin Chem. 2014 May;60(5):765-72. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2013.217240. Epub 2014
Mar 4.

Identification of chromosomally integrated human herpesvirus 6 by droplet digital
PCR.

Sedlak RH(1), Cook L, Huang ML, Magaret A, Zerr DM, Boeckh M, Jerome KR.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Laboratory Medicine and.

BACKGROUND: Human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) latently infects a majority of adults. In
about 1% of the population HHV-6 exists in a chromosomally integrated form
(ciHHV-6) that resides in every somatic and germ cell and can be transmitted
through the germ line. Patients with ciHHV-6 have been misdiagnosed and
unnecessarily treated for active HHV-6 infection, sometimes with important side
effects, based on results from quantitative molecular HHV-6 tests.
METHODS: A droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) assay was developed to identify ciHHV-6 in
cellular patient samples by precisely determining the ratio of HHV-6 to cellular 
DNA. We validated the assay on confirmed ciHHV-6 patient samples and a cell line 
derived from a ciHHV-6 patient, and we analyzed hematopoietic stem cell
transplant patients suspected of having ciHHV-6. We additionally evaluated
whether the assay could be applied to stored plasma samples from a study of
clinical correlates of HHV-6.
RESULTS: The ddPCR assay accurately identified ciHHV-6 in cellular samples (buffy
coat, peripheral blood mononuclear cells), giving a ratio very close to 1
HHV-6/cell [mean (SD), 1.02 (0.03)] in fluorescence in situ
hybridization-confirmed sample). In stored plasma samples, the assay performance 
was set by design to have 100% sensitivity, which resulted in 82% specificity for
ciHHV-6.
CONCLUSIONS: The possibility of ciHHV-6 is often overlooked in patients with
detectable HHV-6 viral loads by quantitative PCR. Our ddPCR test provides rapid
and accurate laboratory identification of ciHHV-6 from easily obtained cellular
samples. In addition, the assay provides excellent sensitivity and specificity
using stored plasma samples, facilitating retrospective analysis of the clinical 
significance of ciHHV-6.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2013.217240 
PMCID: PMC4511388
PMID: 24594780  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1008. Virchows Arch. 2014 May;464(5):553-64. doi: 10.1007/s00428-014-1562-1. Epub 2014 
Mar 4.

APC alterations are frequently involved in the pathogenesis of acinar cell
carcinoma of the pancreas, mainly through gene loss and promoter
hypermethylation.

Furlan D(1), Sahnane N, Bernasconi B, Frattini M, Tibiletti MG, Molinari F,
Marando A, Zhang L, Vanoli A, Casnedi S, Adsay V, Notohara K, Albarello L, Asioli
S, Sessa F, Capella C, La Rosa S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgical and Morphological Sciences, University of Insubria,
Varese, Italy.

Genetic and epigenetic alterations involved in the pathogenesis of pancreatic
acinar cell carcinomas (ACCs) are poorly characterized, including the frequency
and role of gene-specific hypermethylation, chromosome aberrations, and copy
number alterations (CNAs). A subset of ACCs is known to show alterations in the
APC/β-catenin pathway which includes mutations of APC gene. However, it is not
known whether, in addition to mutation, loss of APC gene function can occur
through alternative genetic and epigenetic mechanisms such as gene loss or
promoter methylation. We investigated the global methylation profile of 34 tumor 
suppressor genes, CNAs of 52 chromosomal regions, and APC gene alterations
(mutation, methylation, and loss) together with APC mRNA level in 45 ACCs and
related peritumoral pancreatic tissues using methylation-specific multiplex
ligation probe amplification (MS-MLPA), fluorescence in situ hybridization
(FISH), mutation analysis, and reverse transcription-droplet digital PCR. ACCs
did not show an extensive global gene hypermethylation profile. RASSF1 and APC
were the only two genes frequently methylated. APC mutations were found in only 7
% of cases, while APC loss and methylation were more frequently observed (48 and 
56 % of ACCs, respectively). APC mRNA low levels were found in 58 % of cases and 
correlated with CNAs. In conclusion, ACCs do not show extensive global gene
hypermethylation. APC alterations are frequently involved in the pathogenesis of 
ACCs mainly through gene loss and promoter hypermethylation, along with reduction
of APC mRNA levels.

DOI: 10.1007/s00428-014-1562-1 
PMID: 24590585  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1009. PLoS One. 2014 Feb 21;9(2):e89495. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0089495. eCollection
2014.

Transcriptome analysis reveals common and distinct mechanisms for sheepgrass
(Leymus chinensis) responses to defoliation compared to mechanical wounding.

Chen S(1), Cai Y(2), Zhang L(3), Yan X(2), Cheng L(1), Qi D(1), Zhou Q(1), Li
X(1), Liu G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources, Institute of Botany, the Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Beijing, P. R. China. (2)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources, Institute
of Botany, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, P. R. China ; Graduate
Schoo1 of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, P. R. China. (3)Key
Laboratory of Plant Resources, Institute of Botany, the Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Beijing, P. R. China ; Entry-Exit Inspection and Quarantine Bureau,
Heze, Shandong, P.R. China.

BACKGROUND: Herbivore grazing is a multiple-component process that includes
wounding, defoliation, and saliva deposition. Despite the extensive published
research on mechanical wounding and defoliation, no analysis to identify the
genes that specify defoliation and mechanical wounding has been performed.
Moreover, the influence of the expression of these genes on plant regrowth after 
defoliation remains poorly understood.
RESULTS: Seven cDNA libraries for RNA samples collected from stubble tissues that
had been mechanically wounded or defoliated at 2, 6 and 24 h along with the
control were sequenced using the Illumina/Solexa platform. A comparative
transcriptomic analysis of the sequencing data was conducted. In total, 1,836 and
3,238 genes were detected with significant differential expression levels after
wounding and defoliation, respectively, during one day. GO, KOG and pathway-based
enrichment analyses were performed to determine and further understand the
biological functions of those differentially expressed genes (DEGs). The results 
demonstrated that both wounding and defoliation activated the systemic synthesis 
of jasmonate (JA). However, defoliation specifically reduced the expression
levels of ribosomal protein genes, cell division or cell expansion-related genes,
and lignin biosynthesis genes and may have negatively affected plant growth.
Further analysis revealed that the regrowth of elongating leaves was
significantly retarded after defoliation at 6 h through the following 7 days of
measurement, suggesting that the gene expression pattern and phenotype are
consistent. Fifteen genes were selected, and their expression levels were
confirmed by quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR). Thirteen of them exhibited expression
patterns consistent with the digital gene expression (DGE) data.
CONCLUSIONS: These sequencing datasets allowed us to elucidate the common and
distinct mechanisms of plant responses to defoliation and wounding. Additionally,
the distinct DEGs represent a valuable resource for novel gene discovery that may
improve plant resistance to defoliation from various processes.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0089495 
PMCID: PMC3931765
PMID: 24586824  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1010. J Clin Gastroenterol. 2015 Jan;49(1):24-30. doi: 10.1097/MCG.0000000000000100.

The correlation between manometric and videofluoroscopic measurements of the
swallowing function in brainstem stroke patients with Dysphagia.

Lan Y(1), Xu G, Dou Z, Lin T, Yu F, Jiang L.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The Third Affiliated Hospital
†Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital, Sun
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.

GOALS: The objective of the current study was to examine the correlation between 
high-resolution manometric and videofluoroscopic measurements of the swallowing
function.
BACKGROUND: In such cases in which manometric analysis is not feasible, it would 
be ideal if information regarding pressure during swallowing could be inferred
from a videofluoroscopic swallowing study (VFSS) evaluation alone.
STUDY: The swallowing function was examined using simultaneous VFSS and
high-resolution manometry (HRM) in 24 brainstem stroke survivors with dysphagia. 
The pharyngeal constriction ratio (PCR) and upper esophageal sphincter (UES)
maximum opening diameter were measured using VFSS digital analysis. The
pharyngeal maximum pressure and UES residual pressure were measured using HRM.
The correlation coefficients between the PCR and pharyngeal maximum pressure and 
between the UES maximum opening diameter and UES residual pressure were
calculated. The Spearman analyses were used to calculate the correlation
coefficients between manometric and fluoroscopic parameters.
RESULTS: The increase in the pharyngeal maximum pressure wave amplitude was
significantly correlated with a decrease in the PCR (r=-0.849, P<0.001). The
increase in the UES opening diameter was significantly correlated with a decrease
in the UES residual pressure (r=-0.705, P<0.001). High space-time correlations
between the pressure and kinematics of swallowing-related structures were
obtained using simultaneous manometric and videofluoroscopic measurements.
CONCLUSIONS: Certain VFSS measures are significantly correlated with measures of 
pressure assessed using HRM. The measures may be used as indicators of possible
pressure deficits of swallowing.

DOI: 10.1097/MCG.0000000000000100 
PMID: 24583749  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1011. Anal Chem. 2014 Mar 18;86(6):2867-70. doi: 10.1021/ac500459p. Epub 2014 Mar 4.

Digital encoding of cellular mRNAs enabling precise and absolute gene expression 
measurement by single-molecule counting.

Fu GK(1), Wilhelmy J, Stern D, Fan HC, Fodor SP.

Author information: 
(1)Cellular Research Inc. , 3183 Porter Drive, Palo Alto, California 94304,
United States.

We present a new approach for the sensitive detection and accurate quantitation
of messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) gene transcripts in single cells. First, the
entire population of mRNAs is encoded with molecular barcodes during reverse
transcription. After amplification of the gene targets of interest, molecular
barcodes are counted by sequencing or scored on a simple hybridization detector
to reveal the number of molecules in the starting sample. Since absolute
quantities are measured, calibration to standards is unnecessary, and many of the
relative quantitation challenges such as polymerase chain reaction (PCR) bias are
avoided. We apply the method to gene expression analysis of minute sample
quantities and demonstrate precise measurements with sensitivity down to sub
single-cell levels. The method is an easy, single-tube, end point assay utilizing
standard thermal cyclers and PCR reagents. Accurate and precise measurements are 
obtained without any need for cycle-to-cycle intensity-based real-time monitoring
or physical partitioning into multiple reactions (e.g., digital PCR). Further,
since all mRNA molecules are encoded with molecular barcodes, amplification can
be used to generate more material for multiple measurements and technical
replicates can be carried out on limited samples. The method is particularly
useful for small sample quantities, such as single-cell experiments. Digital
encoding of cellular content preserves true abundance levels and overcomes
distortions introduced by amplification.

DOI: 10.1021/ac500459p 
PMCID: PMC3982967
PMID: 24579851  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1012. Expert Rev Mol Diagn. 2014 Apr;14(3):307-21. doi: 10.1586/14737159.2014.893828.
Epub 2014 Feb 27.

Emerging technologies in extracellular vesicle-based molecular diagnostics.

Jia S(1), Zocco D, Samuels ML, Chou MF, Chammas R, Skog J, Zarovni N,
Momen-Heravi F, Kuo WP.

Author information: 
(1)Oncology Biomarker Development, Genentech Inc., South San Francisco, CA 94080,
USA.

Extracellular vesicles (EVs), including exosomes and microvesicles, have been
shown to carry a variety of biomacromolecules including mRNA, microRNA and other 
non-coding RNAs. Within the past 5 years, EVs have emerged as a promising
minimally invasive novel source of material for molecular diagnostics. Although
EVs can be easily identified and collected from biological fluids, further
research and proper validation is needed in order for them to be useful in the
clinical setting. In addition, innovative and more efficient means of nucleic
acid profiling are needed to facilitate investigations into the cellular and
molecular mechanisms of EV function and to establish their potential as useful
clinical biomarkers and therapeutic tools. In this article, we provide an
overview of recent technological improvements in both upstream EV isolation and
downstream analytical technologies, including digital PCR and next generation
sequencing, highlighting future prospects for EV-based molecular diagnostics.

DOI: 10.1586/14737159.2014.893828 
PMID: 24575799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1013. Int J Mol Cell Med. 2013 Summer;2(3):125-30.

Sarcocystis cruzi: First Molecular Identification from Cattle in Iran.

Kalantari N(1), Bayani M(2), Ghaffari S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Cellular and Molecular Biology Research Center (CMBRC), Babol University of
Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran. ; Department of Laboratory Sciences, Faculty of
Para-Medicine, Babol University of Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran. (2)Infectious
Diseases and Tropical Medicine Research Center, Babol University of Medical
Sciences, Babol, Iran. (3)Department of Parasitology-Mycology, Faculty of
Medicine, Babol University of Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran .

Sarcocystis is a genus of cyst-forming parasites infecting both animals and
human. This study aimed to isolate coccidian tissue cysts from muscle of infected
animals by a simple method in addition to molecular identification of Sarcocystis
cruzi from the samples. The samples were obtained from commercial source in
Babol, Northern Iran. Five grams of calf muscle was cut into 2-3 pieces in 30 ml 
of phosphate-buffered saline containing 0.1% Tween 80 and homogenized with IKA
T25, DIGITAL ULTRA-TURRAX. The homogenate was filtrated twice and used for
microscopy examination and molecular analysis. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
and partial sequence analysis of the 18S ribosomal gene were used to identify the
Sarcocystis species. Giemsa stain of the filtrated calf muscle samples showed
that the sample had ellipse to around tissue cysts contained crescent-shaped
bodies. The PCR of the 18SrDNA yielded an 1100 bp DNA band on agarose gel and
sequence analysis of the DNA confirmed the isolate as S. cruzi. The sequence was 
deposited in GenBank by Accession No.KC508514. This is the first molecular
identification of an isolate of S. cruzi in Iran.


PMCID: PMC3920535
PMID: 24551802 


1014. Gene. 2014 Apr 25;540(1):96-103. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2014.02.008. Epub 2014 Feb
12.

Transcriptome and gene expression analysis during flower blooming in Rosa
chinensis 'Pallida'.

Yan H(1), Zhang H(1), Chen M(1), Jian H(1), Baudino S(2), Caissard JC(2),
Bendahmane M(3), Li S(1), Zhang T(1), Zhou N(1), Qiu X(1), Wang Q(1), Tang K(4).

Author information: 
(1)Flower Research Institute of Yunnan Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Kunming,
Yunnan 650205, PR China; Yunnan Flower Breeding Key Lab., Kunming Yunnan 650205, 
PR China. (2)Laboratoire BVpam, EA3061, Université de Saint-Etienne, Université
de Lyon, 23 rue du Dr Michelon, Saint-Etienne F-42023, France. (3)Laboratoire
Reproduction et Développement des Plantes, UMR INRA-CNRS, Lyon1-ENSL, Ecole
Normale Supérieure, 46 allée d'Italie, 69364 Lyon Cedex 07, France. (4)Flower
Research Institute of Yunnan Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Kunming, Yunnan
650205, PR China; Yunnan Flower Breeding Key Lab., Kunming Yunnan 650205, PR
China. Electronic address: kxtang@hotmail.com.

Erratum in
    Gene. 2014 Jul 10;544(2):261.

Rosa chinensis 'Pallida' (Rosa L.) is one of the most important ancient rose
cultivars originating from China. It contributed the 'tea scent' trait to modern 
roses. However, little information is available on the gene regulatory networks
involved in scent biosynthesis and metabolism in Rosa. In this study, the
transcriptome of R. chinensis 'Pallida' petals at different developmental stages,
from flower buds to senescent flowers, was investigated using Illumina sequencing
technology. De novo assembly generated 89,614 clusters with an average length of 
428bp. Based on sequence similarity search with known proteins, 62.9% of total
clusters were annotated. Out of these annotated transcripts, 25,705 and 37,159
sequences were assigned to gene ontology and clusters of orthologous groups,
respectively. The dataset provides information on transcripts putatively
associated with known scent metabolic pathways. Digital gene expression (DGE) was
obtained using RNA samples from flower bud, open flower and senescent flower
stages. Comparative DGE and quantitative real time PCR permitted the
identification of five transcripts encoding proteins putatively associated with
scent biosynthesis in roses. The study provides a foundation for scent-related
gene discovery in roses.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2014.02.008 
PMID: 24530310  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1015. Gene. 2014 Apr 15;539(2):230-7. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2014.01.073. Epub 2014 Feb
11.

Cytoplasmic polyhedrosis virus-induced differential gene expression in two
silkworm strains of different susceptibility.

Gao K(1), Deng XY(2), Qian HY(3), Qin GX(3), Hou CX(3), Guo XJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)College of Biotechnology and Chemical Engineering, Jiangsu University of
Science and Technology, Zhenjiang 212003, Jiangsu, China; Sericultural Research
Institute, Jiangsu University of Science and Technology, Zhenjiang 212018,
Jiangsu, China; Sericultural Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural 
Sciences, Zhenjiang 212018, Jiangsu, China. (2)College of Biotechnology and
Chemical Engineering, Jiangsu University of Science and Technology, Zhenjiang
212003, Jiangsu, China. (3)Sericultural Research Institute, Jiangsu University of
Science and Technology, Zhenjiang 212018, Jiangsu, China; Sericultural Research
Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Zhenjiang 212018, Jiangsu,
China. (4)Sericultural Research Institute, Jiangsu University of Science and
Technology, Zhenjiang 212018, Jiangsu, China; Sericultural Research Institute,
Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Zhenjiang 212018, Jiangsu, China.
Electronic address: guoxijie@126.com.

Digital gene expression (DGE) was performed to investigate the gene expression
profiles of 4008 and p50 silkworm strains at 48 h after oral infection with
BmCPV. 3,668,437 clean tags were identified in the BmCPV-infected p50 silkworms
and 3,540,790 clean tags in the control p50. By contrast, 4,498,263 clean tags
were identified in the BmCPV-infected 4008 silkworms and 4,164,250 clean tags in 
the control 4008. A total of 691 differentially expressed genes were detected in 
the infected 4008 DGE library and 185 were detected in the infected p50 DGE
library, respectively. The expression profiles identified some important
differentially expressed genes involved in signal transduction, enzyme activity
and apoptotic changes, some of which were verified using quantitative real-time
PCR (qRT-PCR). These results provide important clues on the molecular mechanism
of BmCPV invasion and resistance mechanism of silkworms against BmCPV infection.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2014.01.073 
PMID: 24525400  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1016. Clin Chim Acta. 2013 Oct 25. pii: S0009-8981(13)00408-7. doi:
10.1016/j.cca.2013.10.007. [Epub ahead of print]

Non-invasive prenatal testing using cell-free fetal DNA in maternal circulation.

Liao GJ(1), Gronowski AM(2), Zhao Z(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Research into Circulating Fetal Nucleic Acids, Li Ka Shing
Institute of Health Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, New
Territories, Hong Kong, China; Department of Chemical Pathology, The Chinese
University of Hong Kong, Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong, China. (2)Department
of Pathology and Immunology, Division of Laboratory and Genomic Medicine,
Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA. Electronic
address: gronowski@wustl.edu. (3)Department of Laboratory Medicine, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

The identification of cell-free fetal DNA (cffDNA) in maternal circulation has
made non-invasive prenatal testing (NIPT) possible. Maternal plasma cell free DNA
is a mixture of maternal and fetal DNA, of which, fetal DNA represents a minor
population in maternal plasma. Therefore, methods with high sensitivity and
precision are required to detect and differentiate fetal DNA from the large
background of maternal DNA. In recent years, technical advances in the molecular 
analysis of fetal DNA (e.g., digital PCR and massively parallel sequencing (MPS))
has enabled the successful implementation of noninvasive testing into clinical
practice, such as fetal sex assessment, RhD genotyping, and fetal chromosomal
aneuploidy detection. With the ability to decipher the entire fetal genome from
maternal plasma DNA, we foresee that an increased number of non-invasive prenatal
tests will be available for detecting many single-gene disorders in the near
future. This review briefly summarizes the technical aspects of the NIPT and
application of NIPT in clinical practice.

© 2013. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cca.2013.10.007 
PMID: 24513326 


1017. Sci Rep. 2014 Feb 5;4:3970. doi: 10.1038/srep03970.

Digital-Direct-RT-PCR: a sensitive and specific method for quantification of CTC 
in patients with cervical carcinoma.

Pfitzner C(1), Schröder I(1), Scheungraber C(1), Dogan A(1), Runnebaum IB(1),
Dürst M(1), Häfner N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department for Gynaecology and Obstetrics, Jena University Hospital, Friedrich
Schiller University, Germany.

The detection of circulating tumour cells (CTC) in cancer patients may be useful 
for therapy monitoring and prediction of relapse. A sensitive assay based on
HPV-oncogene transcripts which are highly specific for cervical cancer cells was 
established. The Digital-Direct-RT-PCR (DD-RT-PCR) combines Ficoll-separation,
ThinPrep-fixation and one-step RT-PCR in a low-throughput digital-PCR format
enabling the direct analysis and detection of individual CTC without RNA
isolation. Experimental samples demonstrated a sensitivity of one HPV-positive
cell in 500,000 HPV-negative cells. Spike-in experiments with down to 5
HPV-positive cells per millilitre EDTA-blood resulted in concordant positive
results by PCR and immunocytochemistry. Blood samples from 3 of 10 CxCa patients 
each contained a single HPV-oncogene transcript expressing CTC among 5 to
15*10(5) MNBC. Only 1 of 7 patients with local but 2 of 3 women with systemic
disease had CTC. This highly sensitive DD-RT-PCR for the detection of CTC may
also be applied to other tumour entities which express tumour-specific
transcripts.

DOI: 10.1038/srep03970 
PMCID: PMC3913920
PMID: 24496006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1018. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2014 Feb;406(6):1701-12. doi: 10.1007/s00216-013-7546-1. Epub 
2014 Feb 4.

Evaluation of droplet digital PCR for characterizing plasmid reference material
used for quantifying ammonia oxidizers and denitrifiers.

Dong L(1), Meng Y, Wang J, Liu Y.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Metrology, Beijing, 100013, China, donglh@nim.ac.cn.

Erratum in
    Anal Bioanal Chem. 2014 Aug;406(20):5065.

DNA reference materials of certified value have a critical function in many
analytical processes of DNA measurement. Quantification of amoA genes in ammonia 
oxidizing bacteria (AOB) and archaea (AOA), and of nirS and nosZ genes in the
denitrifiers is very important for determining their distribution and abundance
in the natural environment. A plasmid reference material containing nirS, nosZ,
amoA-AOB, and amoA-AOA is developed to provide a DNA standard with copy number
concentration for ensuring comparability and reliability of quantification of
these genes. Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) was evaluated for characterization of
the plasmid reference material. The result revealed that restriction endonuclease
digestion of plasmids can improve amplification efficiency and minimize the
measurement bias of ddPCR. Compared with the conformation of the plasmid, the
size of the DNA fragment containing the target sequence and the location of the
restriction site relative to the target sequence are not significant factors
affecting plasmid quantification by ddPCR. Liquid chromatography-isotope dilution
mass spectrometry (LC-IDMS) was used to provide independent data for quantifying 
the plasmid reference material. The copy number concentration of the digested
plasmid determined by ddPCR agreed well with that determined by LC-IDMS,
improving both the accuracy and reliability of the plasmid reference material.
The reference value, with its expanded uncertainty (k = 2), of the plasmid
reference material was determined to be (5.19 ± 0.41) × 10(9) copies μL(-1) by
averaging the results of two independent measurements. Consideration of the
factors revealed in this study can improve the reliability and accuracy of ddPCR;
thus, this method has the potential to accurately quantify DNA reference
materials.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-013-7546-1 
PMCID: PMC3936116
PMID: 24493332  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1019. Anal Chem. 2014 Mar 4;86(5):2618-24. doi: 10.1021/ac403843j. Epub 2014 Feb 12.

High sensitivity detection and quantitation of DNA copy number and single
nucleotide variants with single color droplet digital PCR.

Miotke L(1), Lau BT, Rumma RT, Ji HP.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Oncology, Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of
Medicine , CCSR 1115, 269 Campus Drive, Stanford, California, 94305 United
States.

Erratum in
    Anal Chem. 2015 Mar 3;87(5):3114.
    Anal Chem. 2014 May 6;86(9):4635.

In this study, we present a highly customizable method for quantifying copy
number and point mutations utilizing a single-color, droplet digital PCR
platform. Droplet digital polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR) is rapidly replacing 
real-time quantitative PCR (qRT-PCR) as an efficient method of independent DNA
quantification. Compared to quantative PCR, ddPCR eliminates the needs for
traditional standards; instead, it measures target and reference DNA within the
same well. The applications for ddPCR are widespread including targeted
quantitation of genetic aberrations, which is commonly achieved with a two-color 
fluorescent oligonucleotide probe (TaqMan) design. However, the overall cost and 
need for optimization can be greatly reduced with an alternative method of
distinguishing between target and reference products using the nonspecific DNA
binding properties of EvaGreen (EG) dye. By manipulating the length of the target
and reference amplicons, we can distinguish between their fluorescent signals and
quantify each independently. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this method by
examining copy number in the proto-oncogene FLT3 and the common V600E point
mutation in BRAF. Using a series of well-characterized control samples and cancer
cell lines, we confirmed the accuracy of our method in quantifying mutation
percentage and integer value copy number changes. As another novel feature, our
assay was able to detect a mutation comprising less than 1% of an otherwise
wild-type sample, as well as copy number changes from cancers even in the context
of significant dilution with normal DNA. This flexible and cost-effective method 
of independent DNA quantification proves to be a robust alternative to the
commercialized TaqMan assay.

DOI: 10.1021/ac403843j 
PMCID: PMC3982983
PMID: 24483992  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1020. Clin Chim Acta. 2014 Jan 20;428:44-50.

Non-invasive prenatal testing using cell-free fetal DNA in maternal circulation.

Liao GJ, Gronowski AM, Zhao Z.

The identification of cell-free fetal DNA (cffDNA) in maternal circulation has
made non-invasive prenatal testing (NIPT) possible. Maternal plasma cell free DNA
is a mixture of maternal and fetal DNA, of which, fetal DNA represents a minor
population in maternal plasma. Therefore, methods with high sensitivity and
precision are required to detect and differentiate fetal DNA from the large
background of maternal DNA. In recent years, technical advances in the molecular 
analysis of fetal DNA (e.g., digital PCR and massively parallel sequencing (MPS))
has enabled the successful implementation of noninvasive testing into clinical
practice, such as fetal sex assessment, RhD genotyping, and fetal chromosomal
aneuploidy detection.With the ability to decipher the entire fetal genome from
maternal plasma DNA, we foresee that an increased number of non-invasive prenatal
tests will be available for detecting many single-gene disorders in the near
future. This review briefly summarizes the technical aspects of the NIPT and
application of NIPT in clinical practice.


PMID: 24482806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1021. Lab Chip. 2014 Mar 21;14(6):1176-85. doi: 10.1039/c3lc51327k.

Digital PCR on an integrated self-priming compartmentalization chip.

Zhu Q(1), Qiu L, Yu B, Xu Y, Gao Y, Pan T, Tian Q, Song Q, Jin W, Jin Q, Mu Y.

Author information: 
(1)Research Center for Analytical Instrumentation, Institute of Cyber-Systems and
Control, State Key Laboratory of Industrial Control Technology, Zhejiang
University, Hangzhou, PR China. muying@zju.edu.cn.

An integrated on-chip valve-free and power-free microfluidic digital PCR device
is for the first time developed by making use of a novel self-priming
compartmentalization and simple dehydration control to realize 'divide and
conquer' for single DNA molecule detection. The high gas solubility of PDMS is
exploited to provide the built-in power of self-priming so that the sample and
oil are sequentially sucked into the device to realize sample
self-compartmentalization based on surface tension. The lifespan of its
self-priming capability was about two weeks tested using an air-tight packaging
bottle sealed with a small amount of petroleum jelly, which is significant for a 
practical platform. The SPC chip contains 5120 independent 5 nL microchambers,
allowing the samples to be compartmentalized completely. Using this platform,
three different abundances of lung cancer related genes are detected to
demonstrate the feasibility and flexibility of the microchip for amplifying a
single nucleic acid molecule. For maximal accuracy, within less than 5% of the
measurement deviation, the optimal number of positive chambers is between 400 and
1250 evaluated by the Poisson distribution, which means one panel can detect an
average of 480 to 4804 template molecules. This device without world-to-chip
connections eliminates the constraint of the complex pipeline control, and is an 
integrated on-chip platform, which would be a significant improvement to digital 
PCR automation and more user-friendly.

DOI: 10.1039/c3lc51327k 
PMID: 24481046  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1022. Anal Chem. 2014 Apr 15;86(8):3856-62. doi: 10.1021/ac404085p. Epub 2014 Feb 13.

World-to-digital-microfluidic interface enabling extraction and purification of
RNA from human whole blood.

Jebrail MJ(1), Sinha A, Vellucci S, Renzi RF, Ambriz C, Gondhalekar C, Schoeniger
JS, Patel KD, Branda SS.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Biotechnology and Bioengineering, ‡Systems Biology, and
§Advanced Systems Engineering and Deployment, Sandia National Laboratories ,
Livermore, California, United States.

Digital microfluidics (DMF) is a powerful technique for simple and precise
manipulation of microscale droplets of fluid. This technique enables processing
and analysis of a wide variety of samples and reagents and has proven useful in a
broad range of chemical, biological, and medical applications. Handling of
"real-world" samples has been a challenge, however, because typically their
volumes are greater than those easily accommodated by DMF devices and contain
analytes of interest at low concentration. To address this challenge, we have
developed a novel "world-to-DMF" interface in which an integrated companion
module drives the large-volume sample through a 10 μL droplet region on the DMF
device, enabling magnet-mediated recovery of bead-bound analytes onto the device 
as they pass through the region. To demonstrate its utility, we use this system
for extraction of RNA from human whole blood lysates (110-380 μL) and further
purification in microscale volumes (5-15 μL) on the DMF device itself. Processing
by the system was >2-fold faster and consumed 12-fold less reagents, yet produced
RNA yields and quality fully comparable to conventional preparations and
supporting qRT-PCR and RNA-Seq analyses. The world-to-DMF system is designed for 
flexibility in accommodating different sample types and volumes, as well as for
facile integration of additional modules to enable execution of more complex
protocols for sample processing and analysis. As the first technology of its
kind, this innovation represents an important step forward for DMF, further
enhancing its utility for a wide range of applications.

DOI: 10.1021/ac404085p 
PMID: 24479881  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1023. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 21;9(1):e86344. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0086344. eCollection
2014.

Transcriptome and biochemical analyses revealed a detailed proanthocyanidin
biosynthesis pathway in brown cotton fiber.

Xiao YH(1), Yan Q(1), Ding H(1), Luo M(1), Hou L(1), Zhang M(1), Yao D(1), Liu
HS(1), Li X(1), Zhao J(1), Pei Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biotechnology Research Center, Southwest University, Beibei, Chongqing, China.

Brown cotton fiber is the major raw material for colored cotton industry.
Previous studies have showed that the brown pigments in cotton fiber belong to
proanthocyanidins (PAs). To clarify the details of PA biosynthesis pathway in
brown cotton fiber, gene expression profiles in developing brown and white fibers
were compared via digital gene expression profiling and qRT-PCR. Compared to
white cotton fiber, all steps from phenylalanine to PA monomers (flavan-3-ols)
were significantly up-regulated in brown fiber. Liquid chromatography mass
spectrometry analyses showed that most of free flavan-3-ols in brown fiber were
in 2, 3-trans form (gallocatechin and catechin), and the main units of polymeric 
PAs were trihydroxylated on B ring. Consistent with monomeric composition, the
transcript levels of flavonoid 3', 5'-hydroxylase and leucoanthocyanidin
reductase in cotton fiber were much higher than their competing enzymes acting on
the same substrates (dihydroflavonol 4-reductase and anthocyanidin synthase,
respectively). Taken together, our data revealed a detailed PA biosynthesis
pathway wholly activated in brown cotton fiber, and demonstrated that flavonoid
3', 5'-hydroxylase and leucoanthocyanidin reductase represented the primary flow 
of PA biosynthesis in cotton fiber.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0086344 
PMCID: PMC3897678
PMID: 24466041  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1024. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 21;9(1):e85999. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0085999. eCollection
2014.

Comparison of droplet digital PCR and seminested real-time PCR for quantification
of cell-associated HIV-1 RNA.

Kiselinova M(1), Pasternak AO(2), De Spiegelaere W(1), Vogelaers D(1), Berkhout
B(2), Vandekerckhove L(1).

Author information: 
(1)HIV Translational Research Unit (HTRU), Department of Internal Medicine, Ghent
University and Ghent University Hospital, Ghent, Belgium. (2)Department of
Medical Microbiology, Laboratory of Experimental Virology, Center for Infection
and Immunity Amsterdam (CINIMA), Academic Medical Center, University of
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Cell-associated (CA) HIV-1 RNA is considered a potential marker for assessment of
viral reservoir dynamics and antiretroviral therapy (ART) response in
HIV-infected patients. Recent studies employed sensitive seminested real-time
quantitative (q)PCR to quantify CA HIV-1 RNA. Digital PCR has been recently
described as an alternative PCR-based technique for absolute quantification with 
higher accuracy compared to qPCR. Here, a comparison was made between the droplet
digital PCR (ddPCR) and the seminested qPCR for quantification of unspliced (us) 
and multiply spliced (ms) CA HIV-1 RNA. Synthetic RNA standards and CA HIV-1 RNA 
from infected patients on and off ART (N = 34) were quantified with both methods.
Correlations were observed between the methods both for serially diluted
synthetic standards (usRNA: R2 = 0.97, msRNA: R2 = 0.92) and patient-derived
samples (usRNA: R2 = 0.51, msRNA: R2 = 0.87). Seminested qPCR showed better
quantitative linearity, accuracy and sensitivity in the quantification of
synthetic standards than ddPCR, especially in the lower quantification ranges.
Both methods demonstrated equally high detection rate of usRNA in patient samples
on and off ART (91%), whereas ddPCR detected msRNA in larger proportion of
samples from ART-treated patients (p = 0.13). We observed an average agreement
between the methods for usRNA quantification in patient samples, albeit with a
large standard deviation (bias = 0.05±0.75 log10). However, a bias of 0.94±0.36
log10 was observed for msRNA. No-template controls were consistently negative in 
the seminested qPCR, but yielded a positive ddPCR signal for some wells.
Therefore, the false positive signals may have affected the detection power of
ddPCR in this study. Digital PCR is promising for HIV nucleic acid
quantification, but the false positive signals need further attention.
Quantitative assays for CA HIV RNA have the potential to improve monitoring of
patients on ART and to be used in clinical studies aimed at HIV eradication, but 
should be cross-validated by multiple laboratories prior to wider use.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0085999 
PMCID: PMC3897572
PMID: 24465831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1025. J Neurosci. 2014 Jan 22;34(4):1133-7. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4082-13.2014.

GABAergic neurogliaform cells represent local sources of insulin in the cerebral 
cortex.

Molnár G(1), Faragó N, Kocsis ÁK, Rózsa M, Lovas S, Boldog E, Báldi R, Csajbók É,
Gardi J, Puskás LG, Tamás G.

Author information: 
(1)Research Group for Cortical Microcircuits of the Hungarian Academy of
Sciences, Department of Physiology, Anatomy and Neuroscience, University of
Szeged, Szeged, H-6726, Hungary, Laboratory of Functional Genomics, Department of
Genetics, Biological Research Center, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Szeged,
H-6726, Hungary, Endocrinology Unit, First Department of Internal Medicine,
University of Szeged, Szeged, H-6720, Hungary, and Avidin Ltd, Szeged, H-6726,
Hungary.

Concentrations of insulin in the brain are severalfold higher than blood plasma
levels. Insulin in the brain regulates the metabolism, molecular composition, and
cognitive performance of microcircuits and reduces food intake; cerebral insulin 
levels are altered in diabetes, aging, obesity, and Alzheimer's disease. Released
by pancreatic β cells, insulin passes the blood-brain barrier, but sources of
locally released insulin still remain unclear. We find that insulin is strongly
expressed in GABAergic neurogliaform cells in the cerebral cortex of the rat
detected by single-cell digital PCR. Focal application of glucose or
glibenclamide to neurogliaform cells mimics the excitation suppressing effect of 
external insulin on local microcircuits via insulin receptors. Thus,
neurogliaform cells might link GABAergic and insulinergic action in cortical
microcircuits.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4082-13.2014 
PMID: 24453306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1026. Lab Invest. 2014 Mar;94(3):350-8. doi: 10.1038/labinvest.2013.157. Epub 2014 Jan 
20.

Robust global microRNA expression profiling using next-generation sequencing
technologies.

Tam S(1), de Borja R(2), Tsao MS(3), McPherson JD(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON,
Canada [2] Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University Health Networks, Toronto, 
ON, Canada [3] Genome Technologies, Ontario Institute for Cancer Research,
Toronto, ON, Canada. (2)Informatics and Bio-Computing, Ontario Institute for
Cancer Research, Toronto, ON, Canada. (3)1] Department of Medical Biophysics,
University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada [2] Princess Margaret Cancer Centre,
University Health Networks, Toronto, ON, Canada [3] Department of Laboratory
Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. (4)1]
Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada [2] 
Genome Technologies, Ontario Institute for Cancer Research, Toronto, ON, Canada
[3] Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto,
Toronto, ON, Canada.

miRNAs are a class of regulatory molecules involved in a wide range of cellular
functions, including growth, development and apoptosis. Given their widespread
roles in biological processes, understanding their patterns of expression in
normal and diseased states will provide insights into the consequences of
aberrant expression. As such, global miRNA expression profiling of human
malignancies is gaining popularity in both basic and clinically driven research. 
However, to date, the majority of such analyses have used microarrays and
quantitative real-time PCR. With the introduction of digital count technologies, 
such as next-generation sequencing (NGS) and the NanoString nCounter System, we
have at our disposal many more options. To make effective use of these different 
platforms, the strengths and pitfalls of several miRNA profiling technologies
were assessed, including a microarray platform, NGS technologies and the
NanoString nCounter System. Overall, NGS had the greatest detection sensitivity, 
largest dynamic range of detection and highest accuracy in differential
expression analysis when compared with gold-standard quantitative real-time PCR. 
Its technical reproducibility was high, with intrasample correlations of at least
0.95 in all cases. Furthermore, miRNA analysis of formalin-fixed,
paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue was also evaluated. Expression profiles between
paired frozen and FFPE samples were similar, with Spearman's ρ>0.93. These
results show the superior sensitivity, accuracy and robustness of NGS for the
comprehensive profiling of miRNAs in both frozen and FFPE tissues.

DOI: 10.1038/labinvest.2013.157 
PMID: 24445778  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1027. Hum Pathol. 2014 Apr;45(4):880-3. doi: 10.1016/j.humpath.2013.10.016. Epub 2013
Oct 31.

A PIK3CA mutation detected in plasma from a patient with synchronous primary
breast and lung cancers.

Jelovac D(1), Beaver JA(1), Balukrishna S(2), Wong HY(1), Toro PV(1),
Cimino-Mathews A(1), Argani P(1), Stearns V(1), Jacobs L(1), VanDenBerg D(1),
Kessler J(1), Jeter S(1), Park BH(3), Wolff AC(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins, Baltimore, MD 
21287, USA. (2)Christian Medical College Vellore, Tamil Nadu 632004, India.
(3)The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins, Baltimore, MD 
21287, USA. Electronic address: bpark2@jhmi.edu.

Digital polymerase chain reaction is a new technology that enables detection and 
quantification of cancer DNA molecules from peripheral blood. Using this
technique, we identified mutant PIK3CA DNA in circulating ptDNA (plasma tumor
DNA) from a patient with concurrent early stage breast cancer and non-small cell 
lung cancer. The patient underwent successful resection of both her breast and
lung cancers, and using standard Sanger sequencing the breast cancer was shown to
harbor the identical PIK3CA mutation identified in peripheral blood. This case
report highlights potential applications and concerns that can arise with the use
of ptDNA in clinical oncology practice.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humpath.2013.10.016 
PMCID: PMC3965626
PMID: 24444464  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1028. Clin Cancer Res. 2014 Mar 15;20(6):1698-705. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-13-2482. 
Epub 2014 Jan 15.

Noninvasive detection of response and resistance in EGFR-mutant lung cancer using
quantitative next-generation genotyping of cell-free plasma DNA.

Oxnard GR(1), Paweletz CP, Kuang Y, Mach SL, O'Connell A, Messineo MM, Luke JJ,
Butaney M, Kirschmeier P, Jackman DM, Jänne PA.

Author information: 
(1)Authors' Affiliations: Department of Medical Oncology; Belfer Institute for
Applied Cancer Science, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute; and Department of Medicine,
Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.

PURPOSE: Tumor genotyping using cell-free plasma DNA (cfDNA) has the potential to
allow noninvasive assessment of tumor biology, yet many existing assays are
cumbersome and vulnerable to false-positive results. We sought to determine
whether droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) of cfDNA would allow highly specific and
quantitative assessment of tumor genotype.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: ddPCR assays for EGFR, KRAS, and BRAF mutations were
developed using plasma collected from patients with advanced lung cancer or
melanoma of a known tumor genotype. Sensitivity and specificity were determined
using cancers with nonoverlapping genotypes as positive and negative controls.
Serial assessment of response and resistance was studied in patients with
EGFR-mutant lung cancer on a prospective trial of erlotinib.
RESULTS: We identified a reference range for EGFR L858R and exon 19 deletions in 
specimens from KRAS-mutant lung cancer, allowing identification of candidate
thresholds with high sensitivity and 100% specificity. Received operative
characteristic curve analysis of four assays demonstrated an area under the curve
in the range of 0.80 to 0.94. Sensitivity improved in specimens with optimal
cfDNA concentrations. Serial plasma genotyping of EGFR-mutant lung cancer on
erlotinib demonstrated pretreatment detection of EGFR mutations, complete plasma 
response in most cases, and increasing levels of EGFR T790M emerging before
objective progression.
CONCLUSIONS: Noninvasive genotyping of cfDNA using ddPCR demonstrates assay
qualities that could allow effective translation into a clinical diagnostic.
Serial quantification of plasma genotype allows noninvasive assessment of
response and resistance, including detection of resistance mutations up to 16
weeks before radiographic progression.

©2014 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-13-2482 
PMCID: PMC3959249
PMID: 24429876  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1029. Physiol Genomics. 2014 Mar 1;46(5):177-90. doi:
10.1152/physiolgenomics.00191.2013. Epub 2014 Jan 14.

Transcriptome sequencing revealed the genes and pathways involved in salinity
stress of Chinese mitten crab, Eriocheir sinensis.

Li E(1), Wang S, Li C, Wang X, Chen K, Chen L.

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences, East China Normal University, Shanghai, China;

A total of 276.9 million reads were obtained and assembled into 206, 371 contigs 
with an average length of 614 bp and N50 of 1,470 bp. Comparison of digital gene 
expression between treatment and control group reveals 1,151 and 941 genes were
significantly differentially expressed in crab gill and muscle, respectively. In 
gill and muscle, protein ubiquitination, ubiquinone biosynthesis, oxidative
phosphorylation, and mitochondria dysfunction pathways were the top pathways
differentially expressed following the challenge. EIF 2 signaling pathway and
IGF-1 signaling pathway were the top ones among the signal-related pathways. Most
of the amino acid metabolism pathways were found to be involved in this process. 
The expression patterns of 15 differentially expressed genes were validated by
quantitative real-time RT-PCR (average correlation coefficient 0.80). This is the
first report of expression analysis of genes and pathways involved in
osmoregulation of Eriocheir sinensis through transcriptome sequencing. The
findings of this study will further promote the understanding of the underlying
molecular mechanism of salinity stress adaptation for crustacean species.

DOI: 10.1152/physiolgenomics.00191.2013 
PMID: 24423969  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1030. MLO Med Lab Obs. 2013 Dec;45(12):34-5.

Digital PCR: theory and applications.

Brunstein J(1).

Author information: 
(1)PathoID, Inc, British Columbia.


PMID: 24409593  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1031. J Neurosurg. 2014 Jun;120(6):1397-401. doi: 10.3171/2013.11.JNS131036. Epub 2014 
Jan 3.

Association of Kallikrein gene polymorphisms with sporadic intracranial aneurysms
in the Chinese population.

Suo M(1), Lin Y, Yu H, Song W, Sun K, Song Y, Zhang Y, Zhang C, Zhu Y, Pang Q,
Hui R, Chen J.

Author information: 
(1)Sino-German Laboratory for Molecular Medicine, State Key Laboratory of
Cardiovascular Disease, Fuwai Hospital, National Center for Cardiovascular
Diseases, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College,
Beijing;

OBJECT: Variants of Kallikreins have been shown to be risk factors for
intracranial aneurysm (IA) in a Finnish population. In the present study, the
authors investigated the correlation between polymorphisms in the Kallikrein gene
cluster and IAs in the Chinese population.
METHODS: The association of Kallikrein variants (rs1722561 and rs1701946) with
sporadic IAs was tested in 308 cases and 443 controls. The differences in allelic
frequencies between patients and the control group were evaluated with the
chi-square test.
RESULTS: The C allele of rs1722561 showed a significant reduction in the risk of 
sporadic IA (OR 0.71, 95% CI 0.53-0.95; p = 0.023). However, no association of
the variant rs1701946 with sporadic IA was found (OR 0.78, 95% CI 0.57-1.06; p = 
0.115).
CONCLUSIONS: The variant rs1722561 of Kallikreins might reduce the risk of
sporadic IAs among individuals of Chinese Han ethnicity. This study confirms the 
association between Kallikreins and IAs.

DOI: 10.3171/2013.11.JNS131036 
PMID: 24405067  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1032. BMC Plant Biol. 2014 Jan 7;14:6. doi: 10.1186/1471-2229-14-6.

Identification and characterization of miRNAome in root, stem, leaf and tuber
developmental stages of potato (Solanum tuberosum L.) by high-throughput
sequencing.

Lakhotia N, Joshi G, Bhardwaj AR, Katiyar-Agarwal S, Agarwal M, Jagannath A, Goel
S, Kumar A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, University of Delhi, Delhi 110007, India.
akumar23j@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are ubiquitous components of endogenous plant
transcriptome. miRNAs are small, single-stranded and ~21 nt long RNAs which
regulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level and are known to play 
essential roles in various aspects of plant development and growth. Previously, a
number of miRNAs have been identified in potato through in silico analysis and
deep sequencing approach. However, identification of miRNAs through deep
sequencing approach was limited to a few tissue types and developmental stages.
This study reports the identification and characterization of potato miRNAs in
three different vegetative tissues and four stages of tuber development by high
throughput sequencing.
RESULTS: Small RNA libraries were constructed from leaf, stem, root and four
early developmental stages of tuberization and subjected to deep sequencing,
followed by bioinformatics analysis. A total of 89 conserved miRNAs (belonging to
33 families), 147 potato-specific miRNAs (with star sequence) and 112 candidate
potato-specific miRNAs (without star sequence) were identified. The digital
expression profiling based on TPM (Transcripts Per Million) and qRT-PCR analysis 
of conserved and potato-specific miRNAs revealed that some of the miRNAs showed
tissue specific expression (leaf, stem and root) while a few demonstrated
tuberization stage-specific expressions. Targets were predicted for identified
conserved and potato-specific miRNAs, and predicted targets of four conserved
miRNAs, miR160, miR164, miR172 and miR171, which are ARF16 (Auxin Response Factor
16), NAM (NO APICAL MERISTEM), RAP1 (Relative to APETALA2 1) and HAM (HAIRY
MERISTEM) respectively, were experimentally validated using 5' RLM-RACE (RNA
ligase mediated rapid amplification of cDNA ends). Gene ontology (GO) analysis
for potato-specific miRNAs was also performed to predict their potential
biological functions.
CONCLUSIONS: We report a comprehensive study of potato miRNAs at genome-wide
level by high-throughput sequencing and demonstrate that these miRNAs have tissue
and/or developmental stage-specific expression profile. Also, predicted targets
of conserved miRNAs were experimentally confirmed for the first time in potato.
Our findings indicate the existence of extensive and complex small RNA population
in this crop and suggest their important role in pathways involved in diverse
biological processes, including tuber development.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2229-14-6 
PMCID: PMC3913621
PMID: 24397411  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1033. J Mol Diagn. 2014 Mar;16(2):174-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2013.10.007. Epub 2013
Dec 31.

Detection and quantification of BCR-ABL1 fusion transcripts by droplet digital
PCR.

Jennings LJ(1), George D(2), Czech J(2), Yu M(2), Joseph L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Ann & Robert H. Lurie
Children's Hospital of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois; Department of Pathology and
Laboratory Medicine, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine,
Chicago, Illinois. Electronic address: ljennings@luriechildrens.org.
(2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Ann & Robert H. Lurie
Children's Hospital of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois. (3)Department of Pathology,
The University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois.

Monitoring BCR-ABL1 fusion transcripts by real-time quantitative RT-PCR has
become an important clinical test for the management of patients with chronic
myeloid leukemia. However, it has some inherent limitations with regard to its
lower limit of detection and limit of quantification. Improvement in the lower
limit of detection could aid clinicians in selecting candidates for
discontinuation of tyrosine kinase inhibitors without relapse. Improvement in the
limit of quantification may also avoid unnecessary testing or changes in therapy.
Here, we demonstrate the advantages of droplet digital RT-PCR with regard to
simplicity, lower limit of detection, and limit of quantification. We expect the 
advantages of droplet digital RT-PCR will make it the preferred method for
quantification of BCR-ABL1 fusion transcripts.

Copyright © 2014 American Society for Investigative Pathology and the Association
for Molecular Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2013.10.007 
PMID: 24389534  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1034. PLoS One. 2013 Dec 26;8(12):e83409. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0083409.
eCollection 2013.

Determination of HER2 amplification status on tumour DNA by digital PCR.

Garcia-Murillas I(1), Lambros M(1), Turner NC(2).

Author information: 
(1)The Breakthrough Breast Cancer Research Centre, Institute of Cancer Research, 
London, United Kingdom. (2)The Breakthrough Breast Cancer Research Centre,
Institute of Cancer Research, London, United Kingdom ; Breast Unit, Royal Marsden
Hospital, London, United Kingdom.

Determination of the presence of HER2 amplification by quantitative PCR has been 
challenging, in part due to chromosomal instability and identification of a
robust a reference region. We assessed the potential of digital PCR for highly
accurate assessment of DNA concentration with EFTUD2 as chromosome 17 reference
probe. We assessed a HER2:EFTDU2 ratio by digital PCR assay in the microdissected
DNA from 18 HER2 amplified and 58 HER2 non-amplified cancers. The HER2:EFTUD2
ratio had high concordance with conventionally defined HER2 status with a
sensitivity of 100% (18/18) and a specificity of 98% (57/58). The HER2:EFTUD2
digital PCR assay has potential to accurately assess HER2 amplification status.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0083409 
PMCID: PMC3873285
PMID: 24386193  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1035. PLoS One. 2013 Dec 20;8(12):e84425. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0084425.
eCollection 2013.

Differentially expressed wound healing-related microRNAs in the human diabetic
cornea.

Funari VA(1), Winkler M(2), Brown J(3), Dimitrijevich SD(4), Ljubimov AV(5),
Saghizadeh M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Genomics Core, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, California, United
States of America ; University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles,
California, United States of America. (2)Eye Program, Regenerative Medicine
Institute, Department of Biomedical Sciences, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los
Angeles, California, United States of America. (3)Genomics Core, Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center, Los Angeles, California, United States of America. (4)Department 
of Integrative Physiology, University of North Texas Health Science Center, Fort 
Worth, Texas, United States of America. (5)University of California Los Angeles, 
Los Angeles, California, United States of America ; Eye Program, Regenerative
Medicine Institute, Department of Biomedical Sciences, Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center, Los Angeles, California, United States of America.

MicroRNAs are powerful gene expression regulators, but their corneal repertoire
and potential changes in corneal diseases remain unknown. Our purpose was to
identify miRNAs altered in the human diabetic cornea by microarray analysis, and 
to examine their effects on wound healing in cultured telomerase-immortalized
human corneal epithelial cells (HCEC) in vitro. Total RNA was extracted from
age-matched human autopsy normal (n=6) and diabetic (n=6) central corneas, Flash 
Tag end-labeled, and hybridized to Affymetrix® GeneChip® miRNA Arrays. Select
miRNAs associated with diabetic cornea were validated by quantitative RT-PCR
(Q-PCR) and by in situ hybridization (ISH) in independent samples. HCEC were
transfected with human pre-miR™miRNA precursors (h-miR) or their inhibitors
(antagomirs) using Lipofectamine 2000. Confluent transfected cultures were
scratch-wounded with P200 pipette tip. Wound closure was monitored by digital
photography. Expression of signaling proteins was detected by immunostaining and 
Western blot. Using microarrays, 29 miRNAs were identified as differentially
expressed in diabetic samples. Two miRNA candidates showing the highest fold
increased in expression in the diabetic cornea were confirmed by Q-PCR and
further characterized. HCEC transfection with h-miR-146a or h-miR-424
significantly retarded wound closure, but their respective antagomirs
significantly enhanced wound healing vs. controls. Cells treated with h-miR-146a 
or h-miR-424 had decreased p-p38 and p-EGFR staining, but these increased over
control levels close to the wound edge upon antagomir treatment. In conclusion,
several miRNAs with increased expression in human diabetic central corneas were
found. Two such miRNAs inhibited cultured corneal epithelial cell wound healing. 
Dysregulation of miRNA expression in human diabetic cornea may be an important
mediator of abnormal wound healing.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0084425 
PMCID: PMC3869828
PMID: 24376808  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1036. J Forensic Leg Med. 2014 Jan;21:60-3. doi: 10.1016/j.jflm.2013.10.016. Epub 2013 
Nov 5.

Forensic interlaboratory evaluation of the ForFLUID kit for vaginal fluids
identification.

Giampaoli S(1), Alessandrini F(2), Berti A(3), Ripani L(3), Choi A(4), Crab R(5),
De Vittori E(1), Egyed B(6), Haas C(7), Lee HY(4), Korabecná M(8), Noel F(5),
Podini D(9), Tagliabracci A(2), Valentini A(10), Romano Spica V(11).

Author information: 
(1)University of Rome "Foro Italico", Department of Movement, Human and Health
Sciences, Public Health Unit, P.zza L. De Bosis, 6, 00135 Rome, Italy. (2)Sezione
di Medicina Legale, Dipartimento di Scienze Biomediche e Sanità Pubblica,
Università Politecnica delle Marche, Via Conca - Torrette, 60126 Ancona, Italy.
(3)Carabinieri, Reparto Investigazioni Scientifiche di Roma, V.le di Tor di
Quinto, 119, 00191 Roma, Italy. (4)Department of Forensic Medicine, Yonsei
University College of Medicine, Seoul 120-752, South Korea. (5)National Institute
of Criminalistics and Criminology, Vilvoordsesteenweg 100, 1120 Brussel, Belgium.
(6)Department of Genetics, Eötvös Loránd University, H-1117 Budapest, Pazmany
Peter stny. 1/C, Hungary; GenoID - Forensic DNA Laboratory, H-1023, Budapest,
Lajos utca 28-32, Hungary. (7)Universität Zürich, Institut für Rechtsmedizin,
Winterthurerstrasse 190/52, CH-8057 Zürich, Switzerland. (8)Institute of Biology 
and Medical Genetics of the First Faculty of Medicine and General University
Hospital in Prague, Charles University in Prague, Albertov 4, Praha 2 128 00,
Czech Republic. (9)Department of Forensic Sciences, The George Washington
University, 2100 Foxhall Road NW, Washington, DC 20007, USA. (10)Molecular
Digital Diagnostics (MDD) s.r.l., Via de Lellis, 01100 Viterbo, Italy.
(11)University of Rome "Foro Italico", Department of Movement, Human and Health
Sciences, Public Health Unit, P.zza L. De Bosis, 6, 00135 Rome, Italy. Electronic
address: vincenzo.romanospica@uniroma4.it.

Identification of vaginal fluids is an important step in the process of sexual
assaults confirmation. Advances in both microbiology and molecular biology
defined technical approaches allowing the discrimination of body fluids. These
protocols are based on the identification of specific bacterial communities by
microfloraDNA (mfDNA) amplification. A multiplex real time-PCR assay (ForFLUID
kit) has been developed for identifying biological fluids and for discrimination 
among vaginal, oral and fecal samples. In order to test its efficacy and
reliability of the assay in the identification of vaginal fluids, an
interlaboratory evaluation has been performed on homogeneous vaginal swabs. All
the involved laboratories were able to correctly recognize all the vaginal swabs,
and no false positives were identified when the assay was applied on non-vaginal 
samples. The assay represents an useful molecular tool that can be easily adopted
by forensic geneticists involved in vaginal fluid identification.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd and Faculty of Forensic and Legal Medicine. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jflm.2013.10.016 
PMID: 24365693  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1037. Pediatr Surg Int. 2014 Feb;30(2):173-80. doi: 10.1007/s00383-013-3447-9.

Wnt/β-catenin signaling cascade down-regulation following massive small bowel
resection in a rat.

Sukhotnik I(1), Roitburt A, Pollak Y, Dorfman T, Matter I, Mogilner JG, Bejar J, 
Coran AG.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Intestinal Adaptation and Recovery, Department of Pediatric
Surgery and Pathology, The Ruth and Bruce Rappaport Faculty of Medicine,
Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel,
igor-dr@internet-zahav.net.

BACKGROUND: Growing evidence suggests that the Wnt/β-catenin signaling cascade is
implicated in the control of stem cell activity, cell proliferation, lineage
commitment, and cell survival during normal development and tissue regeneration
of the gastrointestinal epithelium. The roles of this signaling cascade in
stimulation of cell proliferation after massive small bowel resection are
unknown. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the role of Wnt/β-catenin
signaling during late stages of intestinal adaptation in a rat model of short
bowel syndrome (SBS).
METHODS: Male rats were divided into two groups: sham rats underwent bowel
transection and SBS rats underwent a 75 % bowel resection. Parameters of
intestinal adaptation, enterocyte proliferation and apoptosis were determined 2
weeks after operation. Illumina's digital gene expression analysis was used to
determine Wnt/β-catenin signaling gene expression profiling. Twelve
Wnt/β-catenin-related genes and β-catenin protein expression were determined
using real-time PCR, western blotting and immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: From the total number of 20,000 probes, 20 genes related to
Wnt/β-catenin signaling were investigated. From these genes, seven genes were
found to be up-regulated and eight genes to be down-regulated in SBS vs. sham
animals with a relative change in gene expression level of 20 % or more. From 12 
genes determined by real-time PCR, nine genes were down-regulated in SBS rats
compared to control animals including target gene c-Myc. SBS rats also showed a
significant decrease in β-catenin protein compared to control animals.
CONCLUSION: Two weeks following massive bowel resection in rats, Wnt/β-catenin
signaling pathway is inhibited. In addition, it appears that cell differentiation
rather than proliferation is most important in the late stages of intestinal
adaptation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00383-013-3447-9 
PMID: 24363087  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1038. Cancer Discov. 2014 Feb;4(2):232-45. doi: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-13-0286. Epub 2013
Dec 19.

Molecular profiling of the residual disease of triple-negative breast cancers
after neoadjuvant chemotherapy identifies actionable therapeutic targets.

Balko JM(1), Giltnane JM, Wang K, Schwarz LJ, Young CD, Cook RS, Owens P, Sanders
ME, Kuba MG, Sánchez V, Kurupi R, Moore PD, Pinto JA, Doimi FD, Gómez H, Horiuchi
D, Goga A, Lehmann BD, Bauer JA, Pietenpol JA, Ross JS, Palmer GA, Yelensky R,
Cronin M, Miller VA, Stephens PJ, Arteaga CL.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of 1Medicine, 2Pathology, Microbiology & Immunology, 3Cancer
Biology, and 4Biochemistry; 5Breast Cancer Research Program, Vanderbilt-Ingram
Cancer Center, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee; Departments of 6Cell 
& Tissue Biology and 7Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, San
Francisco, California; 8Foundation Medicine, Cambridge, Massachusetts;
9Oncosalud; and 10Instituto Nacional de Enfermedades Neoplásicas (INEN), Lima,
Perú

Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) induces a pathologic complete response (pCR) in
approximately 30% of patients with triple-negative breast cancers (TNBC). In
patients lacking a pCR, NAC selects a subpopulation of chemotherapy-resistant
tumor cells. To understand the molecular underpinnings driving
treatment-resistant TNBCs, we performed comprehensive molecular analyses on the
residual disease of 74 clinically defined TNBCs after NAC, including
next-generation sequencing (NGS) on 20 matched pretreatment biopsies. Combined
NGS and digital RNA expression analysis identified diverse molecular lesions and 
pathway activation in drug-resistant tumor cells. Ninety percent of the tumors
contained a genetic alteration potentially treatable with a currently available
targeted therapy. Thus, profiling residual TNBCs after NAC identifies targetable 
molecular lesions in the chemotherapy-resistant component of the tumor, which may
mirror micrometastases destined to recur clinically. These data can guide
biomarker-driven adjuvant studies targeting these micrometastases to improve the 
outcome of patients with TNBC who do not respond completely to NAC.SIGNIFICANCE: 
This study demonstrates the spectrum of genomic alterations present in residual
TNBC after NAC. Because TNBCs that do not achieve a CR after NAC are likely to
recur as metastatic disease at variable times after surgery, these alterations
may guide the selection of targeted therapies immediately after mastectomy before
these metastases become evident.

2013 AACR

DOI: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-13-0286 
PMCID: PMC3946308
PMID: 24356096  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1039. Sleep Breath. 2014 Sep;18(3):541-8. doi: 10.1007/s11325-013-0916-2. Epub 2013 Dec
14.

Downregulation of uncoupling protein-1 mRNA expression and hypoadiponectinemia in
a mouse model of sleep apnea.

Fiori CZ(1), Martinez D, Baronio D, da Rosa DP, Kretzmann NA, Forgiarini LF,
Montanari CC, Marroni NP, Carissimi A.

Author information: 
(1)Postgraduate Program in Cardiology, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul 
(UFRGS), Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil, cintiazfiori@gmail.com.

PURPOSE: The knowledge on the effect of intermittent hypoxia on adipose
tissue-mediated processes is incipient. The aim of the present study was to
assess the effect of a sleep apnea model on a limited set of specific molecular, 
biochemical, histological, and behavioral parameters of adipose tissue function.
METHODS: Mice were exposed to either intermittent hypoxia or sham hypoxia during 
8 h a day for 37 days. Uncoupling protein-1 expression in brown adipose tissue
was measured by real-time PCR and immunohistochemistry. Digital quantification of
adipose cells and immunohistochemistry of uncoupling protein-1 were performed to 
determine cell dimensions, positive area, and staining intensity. Serum levels of
leptin, adiponectin, and cortisol were measured by ELISA.
RESULTS: In comparison with the control group, animals in the hypoxia group had
significantly lower chow ingestion, weight gain, and smaller white and brown
adipocytes on histological examination. Adiponectin levels were also lower in the
hypoxia group. Uncoupling protein-1 mRNA was abolished in the mice exposed to
hypoxia; accordingly, fewer cells positive for uncoupling protein-1 and lighter
staining intensity were observed in brown adipocytes.
CONCLUSIONS: An experimental model of sleep apnea produced changes in uncoupling 
protein-1 expression and adiponectin levels. These results confirm previous
findings on the response of brown adipose tissue to intermittent hypoxia and
indicate a yet-unknown interference of intermittent hypoxia on energy control,
which may participate in the propensity to weight gain observed in patients with 
sleep apnea. Brown adipose tissue activity in this patient population needs to be
further investigated.

DOI: 10.1007/s11325-013-0916-2 
PMID: 24337908  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1040. Eur J Haematol. 2014 Mar;92(3):244-8. doi: 10.1111/ejh.12246. Epub 2014 Jan 10.

Detection of alpha(0)-thalassemia South-East Asian-type deletion by droplet
digital PCR.

Pornprasert S(1), Prasing W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Technology, Faculty of Associated Medical Sciences,
Chiang Mai University, Chiang Mai, Thailand.

BACKGROUND: The α(0)-thalassemia South-East Asian (SEA)-type deletion is the most
common genetic disorder in the Asian population. Couples who are both carriers
have a 25% chance of conceiving Bart's hydrops fetalis. Therefore, results from
carrier screening and prenatal diagnosis frequently need to be available rapidly.
The aim of this study was to implement a droplet digital polymerase chain
reaction (ddPCR) for diagnosis of α(0)-thalassemia SEA-type deletion.
METHODS: The wild-type α-globin gene allele and α(0)-thalassemia SEA allele were 
quantified in DNA samples of 20 normal individuals, 15 samples with
α(0)-thalassemia SEA trait, and 8 samples with Bart's hydrops fetalis using the
ddPCR. The DNA copy number of wild-type α-globin gene allele and α(0)-thalassemia
SEA allele was then calculated using the Quantasoft analysis software.
RESULTS: The mean ± standard deviation (SD) ratio of wild-type α-globin gene
allele and α(0)-thalassemia SEA allele among normal individuals, samples with
α(0)-thalassemia SEA trait, and Bart's hydrops fetalis were clearly distinguished
with levels of 1.78 ± 0.49, 0.85 ± 0.14, and 0.03 ± 0.03, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The ddPCR may be one alternative technology available for routine
clinical diagnosis of α(0)-thalassemia SEA-type deletion and prenatal diagnosis
of Bart's hydrops fetalis.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejh.12246 
PMID: 24330258  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1041. Hum Gene Ther Methods. 2014 Apr;25(2):115-25. doi: 10.1089/hgtb.2013.131. Epub
2014 Feb 14.

Absolute determination of single-stranded and self-complementary adeno-associated
viral vector genome titers by droplet digital PCR.

Lock M(1), Alvira MR, Chen SJ, Wilson JM.

Author information: 
(1)Gene Therapy Program, Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine,
Division of Transfusion Medicine, University of Pennsylvania , Philadelphia, PA
19104.

Accurate titration of adeno-associated viral (AAV) vector genome copies is
critical for ensuring correct and reproducible dosing in both preclinical and
clinical settings. Quantitative PCR (qPCR) is the current method of choice for
titrating AAV genomes because of the simplicity, accuracy, and robustness of the 
assay. However, issues with qPCR-based determination of self-complementary AAV
vector genome titers, due to primer-probe exclusion through genome self-annealing
or through packaging of prematurely terminated defective interfering (DI)
genomes, have been reported. Alternative qPCR, gel-based, or Southern blotting
titering methods have been designed to overcome these issues but may represent a 
backward step from standard qPCR methods in terms of simplicity, robustness, and 
precision. Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) is a new PCR technique that directly
quantifies DNA copies with an unparalleled degree of precision and without the
need for a standard curve or for a high degree of amplification efficiency; all
properties that lend themselves to the accurate quantification of both
single-stranded and self-complementary AAV genomes. Here we compare a ddPCR-based
AAV genome titer assay with a standard and an optimized qPCR assay for the
titration of both single-stranded and self-complementary AAV genomes. We
demonstrate absolute quantification of single-stranded AAV vector genomes by
ddPCR with up to 4-fold increases in titer over a standard qPCR titration but
with equivalent readout to an optimized qPCR assay. In the case of
self-complementary vectors, ddPCR titers were on average 5-, 1.9-, and 2.3-fold
higher than those determined by standard qPCR, optimized qPCR, and agarose gel
assays, respectively. Droplet digital PCR-based genome titering was superior to
qPCR in terms of both intra- and interassay precision and is more resistant to
PCR inhibitors, a desirable feature for in-process monitoring of early-stage
vector production and for vector genome biodistribution analysis in inhibitory
tissues.

DOI: 10.1089/hgtb.2013.131 
PMCID: PMC3991984
PMID: 24328707  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1042. J Proteome Res. 2014 Jan 3;13(1):183-90. doi: 10.1021/pr400883x. Epub 2013 Dec
13.

Chromosome 18 transcriptoproteome of liver tissue and HepG2 cells and targeted
proteome mapping in depleted plasma: update 2013.

Ponomarenko EA(1), Kopylov AT, Lisitsa AV, Radko SP, Kiseleva YY, Kurbatov LK,
Ptitsyn KG, Tikhonova OV, Moisa AA, Novikova SE, Poverennaya EV, Ilgisonis EV,
Filimonov AD, Bogolubova NA, Averchuk VV, Karalkin PA, Vakhrushev IV, Yarygin KN,
Moshkovskii SA, Zgoda VG, Sokolov AS, Mazur AM, Prokhortchouck EB, Skryabin KG,
Ilina EN, Kostrjukova ES, Alexeev DG, Tyakht AV, Gorbachev AY, Govorun VM,
Archakov AI.

Author information: 
(1)Orekhovich Institute of Biomedical Chemistry of the Russian Academy of Medical
Sciences , 10 Pogodinskaya Street, Moscow 119121, Russia.

We report the results obtained in 2012-2013 by the Russian Consortium for the
Chromosome-centric Human Proteome Project (C-HPP). The main scope of this work
was the transcriptome profiling of genes on human chromosome 18 (Chr 18), as well
as their encoded proteome, from three types of biomaterials: liver tissue, the
hepatocellular carcinoma-derived cell line HepG2, and blood plasma. The
transcriptome profiling for liver tissue was independently performed using two
RNaseq platforms (SOLiD and Illumina) and also by droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) and
quantitative RT-PCR. The proteome profiling of Chr 18 was accomplished by
quantitatively measuring protein copy numbers in the three types of biomaterial
(the lowest protein concentration measured was 10(-13) M) using selected reaction
monitoring (SRM). In total, protein copy numbers were estimated for 228 master
proteins, including quantitative data on 164 proteins in plasma, 171 in the HepG2
cell line, and 186 in liver tissue. Most proteins were present in plasma at 10(8)
copies/μL, while the median abundance was 10(4) and 10(5) protein copies per cell
in HepG2 cells and liver tissue, respectively. In summary, for liver tissue and
HepG2 cells a "transcriptoproteome" was produced that reflects the relationship
between transcript and protein copy numbers of the genes on Chr 18. The
quantitative data acquired by RNaseq, PCR, and SRM were uploaded into the
"Update_2013" data set of our knowledgebase (www.kb18.ru) and investigated for
linear correlations.

DOI: 10.1021/pr400883x 
PMID: 24328317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1043. Biomed Res Int. 2013;2013:134675. doi: 10.1155/2013/134675. Epub 2013 Nov 13.

Development of a novel reference plasmid for accurate quantification of
genetically modified Kefeng6 rice DNA in food and feed samples.

Li L(1), Zhang X, Wan Y, Jin W.

Author information: 
(1)Biotechnology Research Institute, Chinese Agricultural Academy of Sciences,
No. 12 Zhongguancun South Street, Haidian District, Beijing 100081, China.

Reference plasmids are an essential tool for the quantification of genetically
modified (GM) events. Quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) is the most commonly used
method to characterize and quantify reference plasmids. However, the precision of
this method is often limited by calibration curves, and qPCR data can be affected
by matrix differences between the standards and samples. Here, we describe a
digital PCR (dPCR) approach that can be used to accurately measure the novel
reference plasmid pKefeng6 and quantify the unauthorized variety of GM rice
Kefeng6, eliminating the issues associated with matrix effects in calibration
curves. The pKefeng6 plasmid was used as a calibrant for the quantification of
Kefeng6 rice by determining the copy numbers of event- (77 bp) and taxon-specific
(68 bp) fragments, their ratios, and their concentrations. The plasmid was
diluted to five different concentrations. The third sample (S3) was optimized for
the quantification range of dPCR according to previous reports. The ratio between
the two fragments was 1.005, which closely approximated the value certified by
sequencing, and the concentration was found to be 792 copies/μL. This method was 
precise, with an RSD of ~3%. These findings demonstrate the advantages of using
the dPCR method to characterize reference materials.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/134675 
PMCID: PMC3845723
PMID: 24324952  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1044. ScientificWorldJournal. 2013 Nov 13;2013:954640. doi: 10.1155/2013/954640.
eCollection 2013.

Gene structures, classification, and expression models of the DREB transcription 
factor subfamily in Populus trichocarpa.

Chen Y(1), Yang J, Wang Z, Zhang H, Mao X, Li C.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding, Northeast Forestry 
University, 26 Hexing Road, Harbin 150040, China.

We identified 75 dehydration-responsive element-binding (DREB) protein genes in
Populus trichocarpa. We analyzed gene structures, phylogenies, domain
duplications, genome localizations, and expression profiles. The phylogenic
construction suggests that the PtrDREB gene subfamily can be classified broadly
into six subtypes (DREB A-1 to A-6) in Populus. The chromosomal localizations of 
the PtrDREB genes indicated 18 segmental duplication events involving 36 genes
and six redundant PtrDREB genes were involved in tandem duplication events. There
were fewer introns in the PtrDREB subfamily. The motif composition of PtrDREB was
highly conserved in the same subtype. We investigated expression profiles of this
gene subfamily from different tissues and/or developmental stages. Sixteen genes 
present in the digital expression analysis had high levels of transcript
accumulation. The microarray results suggest that 18 genes were upregulated. We
further examined the stress responsiveness of 15 genes by qRT-PCR. A digital
northern analysis showed that the PtrDREB17, 18, and 32 genes were highly induced
in leaves under cold stress, and the same expression trends were shown by
qRT-PCR. Taken together, these observations may lay the foundation for future
functional analyses to unravel the biological roles of Populus' DREB genes.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/954640 
PMCID: PMC3845248
PMID: 24324388  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1045. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2014 Feb;99(2):E338-47. doi: 10.1210/jc.2013-2792. Epub 
2013 Dec 2.

RNA sequencing identifies multiple fusion transcripts, differentially expressed
genes, and reduced expression of immune function genes in BRAF (V600E) mutant vs 
BRAF wild-type papillary thyroid carcinoma.

Smallridge RC(1), Chindris AM, Asmann YW, Casler JD, Serie DJ, Reddi HV, Cradic
KW, Rivera M, Grebe SK, Necela BM, Eberhardt NL, Carr JM, McIver B, Copland JA,
Thompson EA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine (R.C.S.), Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism,
Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, Florida 32224; Department of Otorhinolaryngology-Head 
and Neck Surgery (A.M.C., J.D.C.), Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, Florida 32224;
Department of Health Sciences Research (Y.W.A., D.J.S.), Mayo Clinic,
Jacksonville, Florida 32224; Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology
(H.V.R., N.L.E., B.M.), Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905; Department of
Laboratory Medicine and Pathology (K.W.C., S.K.G.), Division of Clinical
Biochemistry and Immunology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905; Department 
of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology (M.R.), Division of Anatomic Pathology, Mayo
Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905; Department of Cancer Biology (B.N., J.M.C.,
J.A.C., E.A.T.), Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, Florida 32224; and Department of
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (N.L.E.), Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota
55905.

CONTEXT: The BRAF V600E mutation (BRAF-MUT) confers an aggressive phenotype in
papillary thyroid carcinoma, but unidentified additional genomic abnormalities
may be required for full phenotypic expression.
OBJECTIVE: RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) was performed to identify genes
differentially expressed between BRAF-MUT and BRAF wild-type (BRAF-WT) tumors and
to correlate changes to patient clinical status.
DESIGN: BRAF-MUT and BRAF-WT tumors were identified in patients with T1N0 and
T2-3N1 tumors evaluated in a referral medical center. Gene expression levels were
determined (RNA-Seq) and fusion transcripts were detected. Multiplexed
capture/detection and digital counting of mRNA transcripts (nCounter, NanoString 
Technologies) validated RNA-Seq data for immune system-related genes.
PATIENTS: BRAF-MUT patients included nine women, three men; nine were TNM stage I
and three were stage III. Three (25%) had tumor infiltrating lymphocytes. BRAF-WT
included five women, three men; all were stage I, and five (62.5%) had tumor
infiltrating lymphocytes.
RESULTS: RNA-Seq identified 560 of 13 085 genes differentially expressed between 
BRAF-MUT and BRAF-WT tumors. Approximately 10% of these genes were related to
MetaCore immune function pathways; 51 were underexpressed in BRAF-MUT tumors,
whereas 4 (HLAG, CXCL14, TIMP1, IL1RAP) were overexpressed. The four most
differentially overexpressed immune genes in BRAF-WT tumors (IL1B; CCL19; CCL21; 
CXCR4) correlated with lymphocyte infiltration. nCounter confirmed the RNA-Seq
expression level data. Eleven different high-confidence fusion transcripts were
detected (four interchromosomal; seven intrachromosomal) in 13 of 20 tumors. All 
in-frame fusions were validated by RT-PCR.
CONCLUSION: BRAF-MUT papillary thyroid cancers have reduced expression of
immune/inflammatory response genes compared with BRAF-WT tumors and correlate
with lymphocyte infiltration. In contrast, HLA-G and CXCL14 are overexpressed in 
BRAF-MUT tumors. Sixty-five percent of tumors had between one and three fusion
transcripts. Functional studies will be required to determine the potential role 
of these newly identified genomic abnormalities in contributing to the
aggressiveness of BRAF-MUT and BRAF-WT tumors.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2013-2792 
PMCID: PMC3913813
PMID: 24297791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1046. BMC Genomics. 2013 Nov 28;14:839. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-839.

Phylogenetic and transcriptional analysis of an expanded bZIP transcription
factor family in Phytophthora sojae.

Ye W, Wang Y, Dong S, Tyler BM, Wang Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Pathology, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing
210095, China. wangyc@njau.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Basic leucine zipper (bZIP) transcription factors are present
exclusively in eukaryotes and constitute one of the largest and most diverse
transcription factor families. The proteins are responsible for central
developmental and physiological processes in plants, animals, and fungi,
including the pathogenicity of fungal plant pathogens. However, there is limited 
understanding of bZIPs in oomycetes, which are fungus-like organisms in the
kingdom Stramenopila. Oomycetes include many destructive plant pathogens,
including the well-studied species Phytophthora sojae, which causes soybean stem 
and root rot.
RESULTS: Candidate bZIPs encoded in the genomes of P. sojae and four other
oomycetes, two diatoms, and two fungal species were predicted using bioinformatic
methods. Comparative analysis revealed expanded numbers of bZIP candidates in
oomycetes, especially the Phytophthora species, due to the expansion of several
novel bZIP classes whose highly conserved asparagines in basic DNA-binding
regions were substituted by other residues such as cysteine. The majority of
these novel bZIP classes were mostly restricted to oomycetes. The large number of
novel bZIPs appears to be the result of widespread gene duplications during
oomycete evolution. The majority of P. sojae bZIP candidates, including both
conventional and novel bZIP classes, were predicted to contain canonical protein 
secondary structures. Detection of gene transcripts using digital gene expression
profiling and qRT-PCR suggested that most of the candidates were not pseudogenes.
The major transcriptional shifts of bZIPs occurred during the
zoosporangia/zoospore/cyst and host infection stages. Several
infection-associated bZIP genes were identified that were positively regulated by
H2O2 exposure.
CONCLUSIONS: The identification of large classes of bZIP proteins in oomycetes
with novel bZIP motif variants, that are conserved and developmentally regulated 
and thus presumably functional, extends our knowledge of this important family of
eukaryotic transcription factors. It also lays the foundation for detailed
studies of the roles of these proteins in development and infection in P. sojae
and other oomycetes.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-839 
PMCID: PMC4046829
PMID: 24286285  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1047. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol. 2014 Jan;140(1):145-50. doi: 10.1007/s00432-013-1555-5. 
Epub 2013 Nov 27.

Digital PCR quantification of miRNAs in sputum for diagnosis of lung cancer.

Li N(1), Ma J, Guarnera MA, Fang H, Cai L, Jiang F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, The University of Maryland Greenebaum Cancer Center, 
University of Maryland School of Medicine, 10 South Pine Street, MSTF 7th Floor, 
Baltimore, MD, 21201-1192, USA.

PURPOSE: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play important roles in the initiation and
progression of lung cancer. Measuring miRNA expression levels in sputum could
provide a potential approach for the diagnosis of lung cancer. The emerging
digital PCR is a straightforward technique for precise, direct, and absolute
quantification of nucleic acids. The objective of the study was to investigate
whether digital PCR could be used to quantify miRNAs in sputum for lung cancer
diagnosis.
METHODS: We first determined and compared dynamic ranges of digital PCR and
conventional quantitative reverse transcriptase PCR (qRT-PCR) for miRNA
quantification using RNA isolated from sputum of five healthy individuals. We
then used digital PCR to quantify copy number of two lung cancer-associated
miRNAs (miR-31 and miR-210) in 35 lung cancer patients and 40 cancer-free
controls.
RESULTS: Copy number of the miRNAs measured by digital PCR displayed a linear
response to input cDNA amount in a twofold dilution series over seven orders of
magnitude. miRNA quantification determined by digital PCR assay was in good
agreement with that obtained from qRT-PCR analysis in sputum. Furthermore,
combined quantification of miR-31 and miR-210 copy number by using digital PCR in
sputum of the cases and controls provided 65.71 % sensitivity and 85.00 %
specificity for lung cancer diagnosis.
CONCLUSION: As digital PCR becomes more established, it would be a robust tool
for quantitative assessment of miRNA copy number in sputum for lung cancer
diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00432-013-1555-5 
PMCID: PMC3898839
PMID: 24281335  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1048. Biomark Insights. 2013 Nov 14;8:127-36. doi: 10.4137/BMI.S13154. eCollection
2013.

Quantification of Plasma miRNAs by Digital PCR for Cancer Diagnosis.

Ma J(1), Li N, Guarnera M, Jiang F.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Pathology, University of Maryland School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD.

Analysis of plasma microRNAs (miRNAs) by quantitative polymerase chain reaction
(qPCR) provides a potential approach for cancer diagnosis. However, absolutely
quantifying low abundant plasma miRNAs is challenging with qPCR. Digital PCR
offers a unique means for assessment of nucleic acids presenting at low levels in
plasma. This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of digital PCR for
quantification of plasma miRNAs and the potential utility of this technique for
cancer diagnosis. We used digital PCR to quantify the copy number of plasma
microRNA-21-5p (miR-21-5p) and microRNA-335-3p (miR-335-3p) in 36 lung cancer
patients and 38 controls. Digital PCR showed a high degree of linearity and
quantitative correlation with miRNAs in a dynamic range from 1 to 10,000
copies/μL of input, with high reproducibility. qPCR exhibited a dynamic range
from 100 to 1×10(7) copies/μL of input. Digital PCR had a higher sensitivity to
detect copy number of the miRNAs compared with qPCR. In plasma, digital PCR could
detect copy number of both miR-21-5p and miR-335-3p, whereas qPCR was only able
to assess miR-21-5p. Quantification of the plasma miRNAs by digital PCR provided 
71.8% sensitivity and 80.6% specificity in distinguishing lung cancer patients
from cancer-free subjects.

DOI: 10.4137/BMI.S13154 
PMCID: PMC3836484
PMID: 24277982 


1049. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2014 Jan;406(3):661-7. doi: 10.1007/s00216-013-7476-y. Epub
2013 Nov 26.

One-step RT-droplet digital PCR: a breakthrough in the quantification of
waterborne RNA viruses.

Rački N(1), Morisset D, Gutierrez-Aguirre I, Ravnikar M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Systems Biology, National Institute of
Biology, Vecna pot 111, 1000, Ljubljana, Slovenia.

Water contamination by viruses has an increasing worldwide impact on human
health, and has led to requirements for accurate and quantitative molecular
tools. Here, we report the first one-step reverse-transcription droplet digital
PCR-based absolute quantification of a RNA virus (rotavirus) in different types
of surface water samples. This quantification method proved to be more precise
and more tolerant to inhibitory substances than the benchmarking
reverse-transcription real-time PCR (RT-qPCR), and needs no standard curve. This 
new tool is fully amenable for the quantification of viruses in the particularly 
low concentrations usually found in water samples.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-013-7476-y 
PMCID: PMC3892107
PMID: 24276251  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1050. J Integr Plant Biol. 2014 Feb;56(2):122-32. doi: 10.1111/jipb.12133.

Why mosaic? Gene expression profiling of African cassava mosaic virus-infected
cassava reveals the effect of chlorophyll degradation on symptom development.

Liu J(1), Yang J, Bi H, Zhang P.

Author information: 
(1)Shanghai Chenshan Plant Science Research Center, the Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Chenshan Botanical Garden, Shanghai, 201602, China; National Key
Laboratory of Plant Molecular Genetics and National Center for Plant Gene
Research (Shanghai), Institute of Plant Physiology and Ecology, Shanghai
Institutes for Biological Sciences, the Chinese Academy of Science, Shanghai,
200032, China.

Cassava mosaic disease, caused by cassava begomoviruses, is the most serious
disease for cassava in Africa. However, the pathogenesis of this disease is
poorly understood. We employed high throughput digital gene expression profiling 
based on the Illumina Solexa sequencing technology to investigate the global
transcriptional response of cassava to African cassava mosaic virus infection. We
found that 3,210 genes were differentially expressed in virus-infected cassava
leaves. Gene ontology term and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway
analysis indicated that genes implicated in photosynthesis were most affected,
consistent with the chlorotic symptoms observed in infected leaves. The
upregulation of chlorophyll degradation genes, including the genes encoding
chlorophyllase, pheophytinase, and pheophorbide a oxygenase, and downregulation
of genes encoding the major apoproteins in light-harvesting complex II were
confirmed by qRT-PCR. These findings, together with the reduction of chlorophyll 
b content and fewer grana stacks in the infected leaf cells, reveal that the
degradation of chlorophyll plays an important role in African cassava mosaic
virus symptom development. This study will provide a road map for future
investigations into viral pathogenesis.

© 2013 Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/jipb.12133 
PMID: 24237761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1051. PLoS One. 2013 Nov 6;8(11):e73541. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0073541. eCollection
2013.

The suppression of WRKY44 by GIGANTEA-miR172 pathway is involved in drought
response of Arabidopsis thaliana.

Han Y(1), Zhang X, Wang W, Wang Y, Ming F.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering, Institute of Genetics, Fudan
University, Shanghai, China ; Institute of Plant Biology, School of Life Science,
Fudan University, Shanghai, China.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2015;10(4):e0124854. Wang, Wei [added].

Water availability is an important environmental factor that controls flowering
time. Many plants accelerate flowering under drought conditions, a phenomenon
called drought escape. Four pathways are involved in controlling flowering time, 
but which ones participate in drought escape is not yet known. In this study,
plants with loss-of-function mutations of GIGANTEA (GI) and CONSTANS (CO)
exhibited abnormal drought-escape phenotypes. The peak mRNA levels of GI and FKF1
(Flavin-binding Kelch domain F box protein 1) and the mRNA levels of CO and FT
(Flowering locus T) changed under drought stress. The microRNA factor miRNA172E
was up-regulated by drought stress, and its up-regulation was dependent on GI,
while other miRNA172s were not. Water-loss analyses indicated that gi mutants
were more sensitive while miRNA172 over-expressing (miRNA172-OX) plants were less
so to drought stress than wild-type plants. Digital gene expression and real-time
PCR analyses showed that WRKY44 was down-regulated by GI and miRNA172. The WRKY44
protein could interact with TOE1 (a target of miRNA172) in a yeast two-hybrid
system. We proposed that GI-miRNA172-WRKY44 may regulate drought escape and
drought tolerance by affecting sugar signaling in Arabidopsis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0073541 
PMCID: PMC3819348
PMID: 24223111  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1052. J Invertebr Pathol. 2014 Jan;115:8-13. doi: 10.1016/j.jip.2013.10.016. Epub 2013 
Nov 6.

Digital gene expression analysis in the midgut of 4008 silkworm strain infected
with cytoplasmic polyhedrosis virus.

Gao K(1), Deng XY(2), Qian HY(3), Qin G(3), Guo XJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)College of Biotechnology and Chemical Engineering, Jiangsu University of
Science and Technology, Zhenjiang 212003, Jiangsu, China; Sericultural Research
Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Zhenjiang 212018, Jiangsu,
China; Sericultural Research Institute, Jiangsu University of Science and
Technology, Zhenjiang 212018, Jiangsu, China. (2)College of Biotechnology and
Chemical Engineering, Jiangsu University of Science and Technology, Zhenjiang
212003, Jiangsu, China. (3)Sericultural Research Institute, Chinese Academy of
Agricultural Sciences, Zhenjiang 212018, Jiangsu, China; Sericultural Research
Institute, Jiangsu University of Science and Technology, Zhenjiang 212018,
Jiangsu, China. (4)Sericultural Research Institute, Chinese Academy of
Agricultural Sciences, Zhenjiang 212018, Jiangsu, China; Sericultural Research
Institute, Jiangsu University of Science and Technology, Zhenjiang 212018,
Jiangsu, China. Electronic address: guoxijie@126.com.

Digital Gene Expression was performed to investigate the midgut transcriptome
profile of 4008 silkworm strain orally infected with BmCPV. A total of 4,498,263 
and 4,258,240 clean tags were obtained from the control and BmCPV-infected
larvae. A total of 752 differentially expressed genes were detected, of which 649
were upregulated and 103 were downregulated. Analysis results of the Kyoto
Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway showed that 334 genes were involved in 
the ribosome and RNA transport pathways. Moreover, 408 of the 752 differentially 
expressed genes have a GO category and can be categorized into 41 functional
groups according to molecular function, cellular component and biological
process. Differentially expressed genes involved in signaling, gene expression,
metabolic process, cell death, binding, and catalytic activity changes were
detected in the expression profiles. Quantitative real-time PCR was performed to 
verify the expression of these genes. The upregulated expression levels of
Calreticulin, FK506-binding protein, and protein kinase c inhibitor gene probably
led to a calcium-dependent apoptosis in the BmCPV-infected cells. The results of 
this study may serve as a basis for future research not only on the molecular
mechanism of BmCPV invasion but also on the anti-BmCPV mechanism of silkworm.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jip.2013.10.016 
PMID: 24211674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1053. Anal Chem. 2013 Nov 19;85(22):11129-36. doi: 10.1021/ac4030413. Epub 2013 Nov 7.

Increased robustness of single-molecule counting with microfluidics, digital
isothermal amplification, and a mobile phone versus real-time kinetic
measurements.

Selck DA(1), Karymov MA, Sun B, Ismagilov RF.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, California Institute of
Technology , 1200 East California Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91125, United
States.

Quantitative bioanalytical measurements are commonly performed in a kinetic
format and are known to not be robust to perturbation that affects the kinetics
itself or the measurement of kinetics. We hypothesized that the same measurements
performed in a "digital" (single-molecule) format would show increased robustness
to such perturbations. Here, we investigated the robustness of an amplification
reaction (reverse-transcription loop-mediated amplification, RT-LAMP) in the
context of fluctuations in temperature and time when this reaction is used for
quantitative measurements of HIV-1 RNA molecules under limited-resource settings 
(LRS). The digital format that counts molecules using dRT-LAMP chemistry detected
a 2-fold change in concentration of HIV-1 RNA despite a 6 °C temperature
variation (p-value = 6.7 × 10(-7)), whereas the traditional kinetic (real-time)
format did not (p-value = 0.25). Digital analysis was also robust to a 20 min
change in reaction time, to poor imaging conditions obtained with a consumer
cell-phone camera, and to automated cloud-based processing of these images (R(2) 
= 0.9997 vs true counts over a 100-fold dynamic range). Fluorescent output of
multiplexed PCR amplification could also be imaged with the cell phone camera
using flash as the excitation source. Many nonlinear amplification schemes based 
on organic, inorganic, and biochemical reactions have been developed, but their
robustness is not well understood. This work implies that these chemistries may
be significantly more robust in the digital, rather than kinetic, format. It also
calls for theoretical studies to predict robustness of these chemistries and,
more generally, to design robust reaction architectures. The SlipChip that we
used here and other digital microfluidic technologies already exist to enable
testing of these predictions. Such work may lead to identification or creation of
robust amplification chemistries that enable rapid and precise quantitative
molecular measurements under LRS. Furthermore, it may provide more general
principles describing robustness of chemical and biological networks in digital
formats.

DOI: 10.1021/ac4030413 
PMCID: PMC3924768
PMID: 24199852  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1054. J Clin Microbiol. 2014 Jan;52(1):324-7. doi: 10.1128/JCM.02618-13. Epub 2013 Nov 
6.

Plasmid copy number and disease severity in naturally occurring ocular Chlamydia 
trachomatis infection.

Last AR(1), Roberts Ch, Cassama E, Nabicassa M, Molina-Gonzalez S, Burr SE, Mabey
DC, Bailey RL, Holland MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Research Department, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, 
London, United Kingdom.

The Chlamydia trachomatis plasmid is a virulence factor. Plasmid copy number, C. 
trachomatis load and disease severity were assessed in a treatment-naive
population where trachoma is hyperendemic. By using droplet digital PCR, plasmid 
copy number was found to be stable (median, 5.34 [range, 1 to 18]) and there were
no associations with C. trachomatis load or disease severity.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.02618-13 
PMCID: PMC3911420
PMID: 24197878  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1055. BMC Clin Pathol. 2013 Nov 5;13(1):29. doi: 10.1186/1472-6890-13-29.

A mill based instrument and software system for dissecting slide-mounted tissue
that provides digital guidance and documentation.

Adey N(1), Emery D, Bosh D, Callahan S, Schreiner J, Chen Y, Greig A, Geiersbach 
K, Parry R.

Author information: 
(1)AvanSci Bio, LLC, 1290 West 2320 South, Suite D, Salt Lake City, UT
84119-1476, USA. nils@avanscibio.com.

BACKGROUND: Dissection of specific Areas Of Interest (AOIs) of slide-mounted
tumor samples is often used to enrich for cancer cells in order to generate
better signal to noise ratios in subsequent biochemical characterization. Most
clinical laboratories utilize manual dissection for practical reasons and to
avoid the expense and difficulties of laser microdissection systems.
Unfortunately, manual methods often lack resolution and process documentation.
The goal of this project was to design a dissection system for slide-mounted
tissue with better precision than manual methods that also provides digital image
guidance and electronic process documentation.
METHODS: An instrument that is essentially a micro tissue mill was developed. It 
employs a specialized disposable mill bit that simultaneously dispenses liquid,
cuts tissue from the slide surface, and aspirates the liquid along with the
displaced tissue fragments. A software package was also developed that is capable
of transferring digitally annotated AOIs between images of serially cut tissue
sections to guide dissection and generate an electronic record of the process.
RESULTS: The performance of this "meso" dissection system was tested using post
dissection visual examination for resolution and accuracy, fluorescence based DNA
quantitation for recovery efficiency, and dissection of closely situated
mouse-human tissue sections followed by PCR amplification for purity
determination. The minimum resolution is a dissected circle smaller than 200
microns in diameter, edge dissection accuracy is tighter than 100 microns,
recovery efficiency appears greater than 95%, and recovery purity is greater than
99% relative to a different tissue located 100 microns from the dissection
boundary. The system can dissect from both paraffinized and deparaffinized FFPE
tissue sections that are mounted on plain glass slides, and it is compatible with
DNA, RNA, and protein isolation.
CONCLUSIONS: The mesodissection system is an effective alternative to manual
dissection methods and is applicable for biomarker analysis of anatomical
pathology samples, where enrichment of AOIs from the tissue section is helpful,
but pure cell populations are not required.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6890-13-29 
PMCID: PMC3826833
PMID: 24188417 


1056. Gene. 2014 Jan 25;534(2):421-3. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.10.051. Epub 2013 Nov 1.

Two novel mutations in the SLCO2A1 gene in a Chinese patient with primary
hypertrophic osteoarthropathy.

Zhang Z(1), He JW(2), Fu WZ(2), Zhang CQ(3), Zhang ZL(4).

Author information: 
(1)Metabolic Bone Disease and Genetic Research Unit, Department of Osteoporosis
and Bone Diseases, Shanghai Jiao Tong University Affiliated the Sixth People's
Hospital, Shanghai 200233, 600 Yi-Shan Rd., PR China; Department of Orthopedic
Surgery, Shanghai Jiao Tong University Affiliated the Sixth People's Hospital,
Shanghai 200233, 600 Yi-Shan Rd., PR China. (2)Metabolic Bone Disease and Genetic
Research Unit, Department of Osteoporosis and Bone Diseases, Shanghai Jiao Tong
University Affiliated the Sixth People's Hospital, Shanghai 200233, 600 Yi-Shan
Rd., PR China. (3)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Shanghai Jiao Tong University
Affiliated the Sixth People's Hospital, Shanghai 200233, 600 Yi-Shan Rd., PR
China. (4)Metabolic Bone Disease and Genetic Research Unit, Department of
Osteoporosis and Bone Diseases, Shanghai Jiao Tong University Affiliated the
Sixth People's Hospital, Shanghai 200233, 600 Yi-Shan Rd., PR China. Electronic
address: zzl2002@medmail.com.cn.

Primary hypertrophic osteoarthropathy (PHO) is a rare monogenetic disease
characterized by digital clubbing, periostosis and pachydermia. Mutations in the 
15-hydroxy-prostaglandin dehydrogenase (HPGD) gene and solute carrier organic
anion transporter family member 2A1 (SLCO2A1) gene have been shown to be
associated with PHO. Here, we described clinical characteristics in a Chinese
patient with PHO, and identified two novel mutations in SLCO2A1: a heterozygous
guanine-to-thymidine transition at the invariant -1 position of the acceptor site
of intron 2 (c.235-1G>T) and a heterozygous missense mutation p.Pro219Leu
(c.656C>T) in exon 5.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.10.051 
PMID: 24185079  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1057. Anal Chem. 2013 Dec 3;85(23):11619-27. doi: 10.1021/ac403061n. Epub 2013 Nov 19.

Multiplexed target detection using DNA-binding dye chemistry in droplet digital
PCR.

McDermott GP(1), Do D, Litterst CM, Maar D, Hindson CM, Steenblock ER, Legler TC,
Jouvenot Y, Marrs SH, Bemis A, Shah P, Wong J, Wang S, Sally D, Javier L, Dinio
T, Han C, Brackbill TP, Hodges SP, Ling Y, Klitgord N, Carman GJ, Berman JR,
Koehler RT, Hiddessen AL, Walse P, Bousse L, Tzonev S, Hefner E, Hindson BJ,
Cauly TH 3rd, Hamby K, Patel VP, Regan JF, Wyatt PW, Karlin-Neumann GA, Stumbo
DP, Lowe AJ.

Author information: 
(1)The Digital Biology Center, Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc. , 5731 West Las Positas
Boulevard, Pleasanton, California 94566, United States.

Two years ago, we described the first droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) system aimed at
empowering all researchers with a tool that removes the substantial uncertainties
associated with using the analogue standard, quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR).
This system enabled TaqMan hydrolysis probe-based assays for the absolute
quantification of nucleic acids. Due to significant advancements in droplet
chemistry and buoyed by the multiple benefits associated with dye-based target
detection, we have created a "second generation" ddPCR system compatible with
both TaqMan-probe and DNA-binding dye detection chemistries. Herein, we describe 
the operating characteristics of DNA-binding dye based ddPCR and offer a
side-by-side comparison to TaqMan probe detection. By partitioning each sample
prior to thermal cycling, we demonstrate that it is now possible to use a
DNA-binding dye for the quantification of multiple target species from a single
reaction. The increased resolution associated with partitioning also made it
possible to visualize and account for signals arising from nonspecific
amplification products. We expect that the ability to combine the precision of
ddPCR with both DNA-binding dye and TaqMan probe detection chemistries will
further enable the research community to answer complex and diverse genetic
questions.

DOI: 10.1021/ac403061n 
PMID: 24180464  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1058. Lung Cancer. 2013 Dec;82(3):485-90. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2013.09.017. Epub 2013
Oct 10.

The degree of microRNA-34b/c methylation in serum-circulating DNA is associated
with malignant pleural mesothelioma.

Muraoka T(1), Soh J, Toyooka S, Aoe K, Fujimoto N, Hashida S, Maki Y, Tanaka N,
Shien K, Furukawa M, Yamamoto H, Asano H, Tsukuda K, Kishimoto T, Otsuki T,
Miyoshi S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry and
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama University, 2-5-1 Shikata-cho, Kita-ku, Okayama 
700-8558, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is an aggressive tumor with a
poor prognosis. microRNA-34b/c (miR-34b/c), which plays an important role in the 
pathogenesis of MPM, is frequently downregulated by DNA methylation in
approximately 90% of MPM cases. In this study, we estimated the degree of
miR-34b/c methylation in serum-circulating DNA using a digital methylation
specific PCR assay (MSP).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A real-time MSP assay was performed using the SYBR Green
method. The melting temperature (Tm) of each PCR product was examined using a
melting curve analysis. For a digital MSP assay, 40 wells were analyzed per
sample. A total of 110 serum samples from 48 MPM cases, 21 benign asbestos
pleurisy (BAP) cases, and 41 healthy volunteers (HVs) were examined.
RESULTS: Positive range of Tm value for miR-34b/c methylation was defined as
77.71-78.79 °C which was the mean ± 3 standard deviations of 40 wells of a
positive control. The number of miR-34b/c methylated wells was counted per sample
according to this criterion. The number of miR-34b/c methylated wells in MPM
cases was significantly higher than that in BAP cases (P=0.03) or HVs (P<0.001). 
Advanced MPM cases tended to have higher number of miR-34b/c methylated wells
than early MPM cases. Receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis
revealed that three number of miR-34b/c methylated wells per sample was the best 
cut-off of positivity of MPM with a 67% of sensitivity and a 77% specificity for 
prediction. The area under the ROC curve was 0.77.
CONCLUSIONS: Our digital MSP assay can quantify miR-34b/c methylation in
serum-circulating DNA. The degree of miR-34b/c methylation in serum-circulating
DNA is associated with MPM, suggesting that this approach might be useful for the
establishment of a new detection system for MPM.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2013.09.017 
PMID: 24168922  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1059. BMC Cancer. 2013 Oct 27;13:502. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-13-502.

Nuclear-encoded mitochondrial MTO1 and MRPL41 are regulated in an opposite
epigenetic mode based on estrogen receptor status in breast cancer.

Kim TW, Kim B, Kim JH, Kang S, Park SB, Jeong G, Kang HS(1), Kim SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Science, Dongguk University-Seoul, Seoul 100-715, Korea.
rorerr@ncc.re.kr.

BACKGROUND: MTO1 and MRPL41 are nuclear-encoded mitochondrial genes encoding a
mitochondrial tRNA-modifying enzyme and a mitochondrial ribosomal protein,
respectively. Although both genes have been known to have potential roles in
cancer, little is known about their molecular regulatory mechanism, particularly 
from an epigenetic approach. In this study, we aimed to address their epigenetic 
regulation through the estrogen receptor (ER) in breast cancer.
METHODS: Digital differential display (DDD) was conducted to identify mammary
gland-specific gene candidates including MTO1 and MRPL41. Promoter CpG
methylation and expression in breast cancer cell lines and tissues were examined 
by methylation-specific PCR and real time RT-PCR. Effect of estradiol (E2),
tamoxifen, and trichostatin A (TSA) on gene expression was examined in ER + and
ER- breast cancer cell lines. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and luciferase
reporter assay were performed to identify binding and influencing of the ER to
the promoters.
RESULTS: Examination of both cancer tissues and cell lines revealed that the two 
genes showed an opposite expression pattern according to ER status; higher
expression of MTO1 and MRPL41 in ER- and ER+ cancer types, respectively, and
their expression levels were inversely correlated with promoter methylation.
Tamoxifen, E2, and TSA upregulated MTO1 expression only in ER+ cells with no
significant changes in ER- cells. However, these chemicals upregulated MRPL41
expression only in ER- cells without significant changes in ER+ cells, except for
tamoxifen that induced downregulation. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and
luciferase reporter assay identified binding and influencing of the ER to the
promoters and the binding profiles were differentially regulated in ER+ and ER-
cells.
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that different epigenetic status including
promoter methylation and different responses through the ER are involved in the
differential expression of MTO1 and MRPL41 in breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-13-502 
PMCID: PMC4015551
PMID: 24160266  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1060. BMC Genomics. 2013 Oct 23;14:727. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-727.

Identifying the candidate genes involved in the calyx abscission process of
'Kuerlexiangli' (Pyrus sinkiangensis Yu) by digital transcript abundance
measurements.

Qi X, Wu J(1), Wang L, Li L, Cao Y, Tian L, Dong X, Zhang S.

Author information: 
(1)College of Horticulture, State Key Laboratory of Crop Genetics and Germplasm
Enhancement, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095, China.
wujun@njau.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: 'Kuerlexiangli' (Pyrus sinkiangensis Yu), a native pear of Xinjiang, 
China, is an important agricultural fruit and primary export to the international
market. However, fruit with persistent calyxes affect fruit shape and quality.
Although several studies have looked into the physiological aspects of the calyx 
abscission process, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unknown. In order 
to better understand the molecular basis of the process of calyx abscission,
materials at three critical stages of regulation, with 6000 × Flusilazole plus
300 × PBO treatment (calyx abscising treatment) and 50 mg.L-1GA3 treatment (calyx
persisting treatment), were collected and cDNA fragments were sequenced using
digital transcript abundance measurements to identify candidate genes.
RESULTS: Digital transcript abundance measurements was performed using
high-throughput Illumina GAII sequencing on seven samples that were collected at 
three important stages of the calyx abscission process with chemical agent
treatments promoting calyx abscission and persistence. Altogether more than
251,123,845 high quality reads were obtained with approximately 8.0 M raw data
for each library. The values of 69.85%-71.90% of clean data in the digital
transcript abundance measurements could be mapped to the pear genome database.
There were 12,054 differentially expressed genes having Gene Ontology (GO) terms 
and associating with 251 Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) defined
pathways. The differentially expressed genes correlated with calyx abscission
were mainly involved in photosynthesis, plant hormone signal transduction, cell
wall modification, transcriptional regulation, and carbohydrate metabolism.
Furthermore, candidate calyx abscission-specific genes, e.g. Inflorescence
deficient in abscission gene, were identified. Quantitative real-time PCR was
used to confirm the digital transcript abundance measurements results.
CONCLUSIONS: We identified candidate genes that showed highly dynamic changes in 
expression during the calyx abscission process. These genes are potential targets
for future functional characterization and should be valuable for exploration of 
the mechanisms of calyx abscission, and eventually for developing methods based
on small molecule application to induce calyx abscission in fruit production.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-727 
PMCID: PMC4046677
PMID: 24152304  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1061. Lab Chip. 2013 Dec 7;13(23):4563-72. doi: 10.1039/c3lc50736j.

Ultrahigh-throughput sorting of microfluidic drops with flow cytometry.

Lim SW(1), Abate AR.

Author information: 
(1)UC Berkeley-UCSF Graduate Program in Bioengineering, University of California,
San Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.

The detection and sorting of aqueous drops is central to microfluidic workflows
for high-throughput biology applications, including directed evolution, digital
PCR, and antibody screening. However, high-throughput detection and sorting of
drops require optical systems and microfluidic components that are complex,
difficult to build, and often yield inadequate sensitivity and throughput. Here, 
we demonstrate a general method to harness flow cytometry, with its unmatched
speed and sensitivity, for droplet-based microfluidic sorting.

DOI: 10.1039/c3lc50736j 
PMID: 24146020  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1062. J Physiol. 2013 Dec 15;591(24):6193-208. doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.2013.264747. Epub 
2013 Oct 21.

Distribution and Ca(2+) signalling of fibroblast-like (PDGFR(+)) cells in the
murine gastric fundus.

Baker SA(1), Hennig GW, Salter AK, Kurahashi M, Ward SM, Sanders KM.

Author information: 
(1)K. M. Sanders: Department of Physiology and Cell Biology, University of Nevada
School of Medicine, MS 352, Reno, NV 89557, USA. ksanders@medicine.nevada.edu.

Platelet-derived growth factor receptor α positive (PDGFRα(+)) cells are
suggested to mediate purinergic inputs in GI muscles, but the responsiveness of
these cells to purines in situ has not been evaluated. We developed techniques to
label and visualize PDGFRα(+) cells in murine gastric fundus, load cells with
Ca(2+) indicators, and follow their activity via digital imaging. Immunolabelling
demonstrated a high density of PDGFRα(+) cells in the fundus. Cells were isolated
and purified by fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) using endogenous
expression of enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) driven off the Pdgfra
promoter. Quantitative PCR showed high levels of expression of purinergic P2Y1
receptors and SK3 K(+) channels in PDGFRα(+) cells. Ca(2+) imaging was used to
characterize spontaneous Ca(2+) transients and responses to purines in PDGFRα(+) 
cells in situ. ATP, ADP, UTP and β-NAD elicited robust Ca(2+) transients in
PDGFRα(+) cells. Ca(2+) transients were also elicited by the P2Y1-specific
agonist (N)-methanocarba-2MeSADP (MRS-2365), and inhibited by MRS-2500, a
P2Y1-specific antagonist. Responses to ADP, MRS-2365 and β-NAD were absent in
PDGFRα(+) cells from P2ry1((-/-)) mice, but responses to ATP were retained.
Purine-evoked Ca(2+) transients were mediated through Ca(2+) release mechanisms. 
Inhibitors of phospholipase C (U-73122), IP3 (2-APB), ryanodine receptors
(Ryanodine) and SERCA pump (cyclopiazonic acid and thapsigargin) abolished Ca(2+)
transients elicited by purines. This study provides a link between purine binding
to P2Y1 receptors and activation of SK3 channels in PDGFRα(+) cells. Activation
of Ca(2+) release is likely to be the signalling mechanism in PDGFRα(+) cells
responsible for the transduction of purinergic enteric inhibitory input in
gastric fundus muscles.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2013.264747 
PMCID: PMC3892471
PMID: 24144881  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1063. J Biotechnol. 2013 Dec;168(4):382-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2013.10.002. Epub
2013 Oct 17.

Determination of HSV-1 UL5 and UL29 gene copy numbers in an HSV complementing
Vero cell line.

Azizi A(1), Aidoo F, Gisonni-Lex L, McNeil B.

Author information: 
(1)Microbiology & Virology Platform, Department of Analytical Research &
Development North America, Sanofi Pasteur, 1755 Steeles Avenue West, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada M2R 3T4. Electronic address: ali.azizi@sanofipasteur.com.

The genetic stability of transgenes is a critical characteristic used to assess
constructed cell lines used for vaccine production. The evaluation of gene copy
numbers by a qPCR method, is one of the most common approaches used to assess the
consistency of transgenes in a constructed cell line. The cell line AV529-19 is a
Vero-based cell line specifically engineered to express the HSV-1 UL5 and UL29
open reading frames. AV529-19 is used to support the replication of a defective
HSV-2 viral candidate vaccine called HSV529. To assess the genetic stability of
the UL5 and UL29 transgenes in AV529-19 cells, a digital PCR-based approach was
developed. During characterization of the test method, the specificity, accuracy,
and intermediate precision of the assay was investigated based on regulatory
guidelines. The developed assay was used to monitor the stability of the
transgenes in the manufactured AV529-19 cell lines by comparison of transgene
copy numbers in the master cell bank (MCB) with their copy numbers in the
extended cell bank (ECB). Results showed that the UL29 and UL5 transgenes are
stable in that there are one and three copies of the UL29 and UL5 genes,
respectively, per cell in both the AV529-19 MCB and ECB.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2013.10.002 
PMID: 24140636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1064. J Dairy Sci. 2013;96(12):7617-29. doi: 10.3168/jds.2013-6717. Epub 2013 Oct 17.

Interdigital dermatitis, heel horn erosion, and digital dermatitis in 14
Norwegian dairy herds.

Knappe-Poindecker M(1), Gilhuus M, Jensen TK, Klitgaard K, Larssen RB, Fjeldaas
T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Production Animal Clinical Sciences, Norwegian School of
Veterinary Science, PO Box 8146, 0033 Oslo, Norway. Electronic address:
maren.knappe-poindecker@nvh.no.

The aim of this study was to assess infectious foot diseases, including
identification and characterization of Dichelobacter nodosus and Treponema spp., 
in herds having problems with interdigital dermatitis (ID) and heel horn erosion 
(E) and in control herds expected to have few problems. We also wanted to compare
diseased and healthy cows in all herds. The study included 14 dairy herds with a 
total of 633 cows. Eight herds had a history of ID and E, and 6 were control
herds. All cows were scored for lameness, and infectious foot diseases on the
hind feet were recorded after trimming. Swabs and biopsies were taken from the
skin of 10 cows in each herd for bacterial analyses. In total, samples were taken
from 34 cows with ID, 11 with E, 40 with both ID and E, and 8 with digital
dermatitis (DD), and from 47 cows with healthy feet. Swabs were analyzed for
identification and characterization of D. nodosus by PCR, culture, virulence
testing, and serotyping. Biopsies were analyzed by fluorescent in situ
hybridization regarding histopathology, identification, and characterization of
Treponema spp., and identification of D. nodosus. Interdigital dermatitis was the
most frequent foot disease, with a prevalence of 50.4% in problem herds compared 
with 26.8% in control herds. Heel horn erosion was recorded in 34.8% of the cows 
in problem herds compared with 22.1% in control herds. Dichelobacter nodosus was 
detected in 97.1% of the cows with ID, in 36.4% with E, in all cows with both ID 
and E, in all cows with DD, and in 66.0% of cows with healthy feet. All
serogroups of D. nodosus except F and M were detected, and all isolates were
defined as benign by the gelatin gel test. Treponema spp. were detected in 50.0% 
of the cows with ID, in 9.1% with E, in 67.5% with ID and E, in all cows with DD,
and in 6.4% of those with healthy feet. In total, 6 previously described
phylotypes (PT) of Treponema were detected: PT1, PT3, PT6, PT13, and PT15 in cows
with ID, PT1 in a cow with E, and PT1, PT2, PT3, PT6, and PT13 in cows with both 
ID and E. One new phylotype (PT19) was identified. The epidermal damage score was
higher but the difference in inflammatory response of the dermis was minor in
cows with ID versus those with healthy feet. Fisher's exact test revealed an
association between ID and D. nodosus, and between ID and Treponema spp. Logistic
regression revealed an association between both ID and E and dirty claws (odds
ratios=1.9 and 2.0, respectively). Our study indicates that D. nodosus, Treponema
spp., and hygiene are involved in the pathogenesis of ID.

Copyright © 2013 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2013-6717 
PMID: 24140335  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1065. Insect Sci. 2014 Oct;21(5):619-36. doi: 10.1111/1744-7917.12065. Epub 2014 Jan
30.

The integrative analysis of microRNA and mRNA expression in Apis mellifera
following maze-based visual pattern learning.

Qin QH(1), Wang ZL, Tian LQ, Gan HY, Zhang SW, Zeng ZJ.

Author information: 
(1)Honeybee Research Institute, Jiangxi Agricultural University, Nanchang, China.

The honeybee (Apis mellifera) is a social insect with strong sensory capacity and
diverse behavioral repertoire and is recognized as a good model organism for
studying the neurobiological basis of learning and memory. In this study, we
analyzed the changes in microRNA (miRNA) and messenger RNA (mRNA) following
maze-based visual learning using next-generation small RNA sequencing and
Solexa/lllumina Digital Gene Expression tag profiling (DGE). For small RNA
sequencing, we obtained 13 367 770 and 13 132 655 clean tags from the maze and
control groups, respectively. A total of 40 differentially expressed known miRNAs
were detected between these two samples, and all of them were up-regulated in the
maze group compared to the control group. For DGE, 5 681 320 and 5 939 855 clean 
tags were detected from the maze and control groups, respectively. There were a
total of 388 differentially expressed genes between these two samples, with 45
genes up-regulated and 343 genes down-regulated in the maze group, compared to
the control group. Additionally, the expression levels of 10 differentially
expressed genes were confirmed by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase
chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and the expression trends of eight of them were
consistent with the DGE result, although the degree of change was lower in
amplitude. The integrative analysis of miRNA and mRNA expression showed that,
among the 40 differentially expressed known miRNAs and 388 differentially
expressed genes, 60 pairs of miRNA/mRNA were identified as co-expressed in our
present study. These results suggest that both miRNA and mRNA may play a pivotal 
role in the process of learning and memory in honeybees. Our sequencing data
provide comprehensive miRNA and gene expression information for maze-based visual
learning, which will facilitate understanding of the molecular mechanisms of
honeybee learning and memory.

© 2013 Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/1744-7917.12065 
PMID: 24136738  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1066. Expert Rev Mol Diagn. 2013 Nov;13(8):789-92. doi: 10.1586/14737159.2013.847792.
Epub 2013 Oct 17.

Will droplet digital PCR become the test of choice for detecting and quantifying 
ocular Chlamydia trachomatis infection? Maybe not.

Schachter J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, CA
94143, USA.

Comment in
    Expert Rev Mol Diagn. 2014 Apr;14(3):253-6.

Comment on
    J Clin Microbiol. 2013 Jul;51(7):2195-203.

Evaluation of: Roberts CH, Last A, Molina-Gonzalez S et al. Development and
evaluation of a next-generation digital PCR diagnostic assay for ocular chlamydia
trachomatis infections. J. Clin. Microbiol. 51(7), 2195-2203 (2013). Trachoma is 
the leading infectious cause of blindness in developing countries. Currently,
there is no program to eliminate blinding trachoma as a public health problem. We
need better diagnostic tests for research and to assess progress in control
programs. Roberts et al. adapted droplet digital PCR (ddPCR), an emulsion PCR
process that performs absolute quantitation of nucleic acids, to detect and
quantify Chlamydia trachomatis infections. They compared the results with ddPCR
on conjunctival swab specimens collected in trachoma-endemic area to results
using Roche's Amplicor® C. trachomatis/Neisseria gonorrhoeae (CT/NG) PCR and
found that ddPCR sensitivity was 73.3%. The authors concluded that 'ddPCR is an
effective diagnostic technology suitable for both research and clinical use in
diagnosing ocular C. trachomatis infections'. This reviewer disagrees, feeling
that if the stated sensitivity is accurate, it is too low, and suggests there may
be good reasons to adapt commercially available tests for this purpose.

DOI: 10.1586/14737159.2013.847792 
PMID: 24134626  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1067. Anticancer Res. 2013 Oct;33(10):4521-9.

Free circulating DNA as a biomarker of prostate cancer: comparison of
quantitation methods.

Ramachandran K(1), Speer CG, Fiddy S, Reis IM, Singal R.

Author information: 
(1)Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center, 1475 NW 12th Ave, Miami, FL-33136,
U.S.A. rsingal@med.miami.edu.

AIM: To identify a simpler method of free circulating DNA (fcDNA) quantitation
that may improve the specificity of the prostate cancer prostate-specific antigen
(PSA) screening test.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The patient group consisted of 241 men with elevated
PSA/abnormal digital rectal exam (DRE), undergoing prostate biopsy. Serum fcDNA
levels were measured by UV absorbance and PicoGreen. Results were compared to
previously published quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) data.
RESULTS: We found that levels of fcDNA measured by PicoGreen correlated well with
those measured by qPCR (r=0.8552). In the patient group with PSA >4 to 10 ng/ml, 
those with fcDNA (PicoGreen) >53.1 ng/ml were at increased risk for prostate
cancer compared to those with fcDNA ≤ 53.1 ng/ml. Moreover, we found that
measuring fcDNA levels by PicoGreen does not compromise the negative predictive
value, accuracy or specificity of the qPCR fcDNA test.
CONCLUSION: If validated in larger studies, PicoGreen quantitation of fcDNA could
serve as a simple method to aid in prostate cancer diagnosis.


PMID: 24123025  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1068. Reprod Health. 2013 Oct 11;10:55. doi: 10.1186/1742-4755-10-55.

Congenital transmission of Trypanosoma cruzi in Argentina, Honduras, and Mexico: 
study protocol.

Buekens P(1), Cafferata ML, Alger J, Althabe F, Belizán JM, Carlier Y, Ciganda A,
Dumonteil E, Gamboa-Leon R, Howard E, Matute ML, Sosa-Estani S, Truyens C, Wesson
D, Zuniga C.

Author information: 
(1)School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, Tulane University, 1440 Canal
Street, Ste, 2430, New Orleans, Louisiana LA 70112, USA. pbuekens@tulane.edu.

BACKGROUND: Trypanosoma cruzi has been divided into Discrete Typing Units I and
non-I (II-VI). T. cruzi I is predominant in Mexico and Central America, while
non-I is predominant in most of South America, including Argentina. Little is
known about congenital transmission of T. cruzi I. The specific aim of this study
is to determine the rate of congenital transmission of T. cruzi I compared to
non-I.
METHODS/DESIGN: We are conducting a prospective study to enroll at delivery,
10,000 women in Argentina, 7,500 women in Honduras, and 13,000 women in Mexico.
We are measuring transmitted maternal T. cruzi antibodies by performing two rapid
tests in cord blood (Stat-Pak, Chembio, Medford, New York, and Trypanosoma
Detect, InBios, Seattle, Washington). If at least one of the results is positive,
we are identifying infants who are congenitally infected by performing
parasitological examinations on cord blood and at 4-8 weeks, and serological
follow-up at 10 months. Serological confirmation by ELISA (Wiener, Rosario,
Argentina) is performed in cord and maternal blood, and at 10 months. We also are
performing T. cruzi standard PCR, real-time quantitative PCR and genotyping on
maternal venous blood and on cord blood, and serological examinations on
siblings. Data are managed by a Data Center in Montevideo, Uruguay. Data are
entered online at the sites in an OpenClinica data management system, and digital
pictures of data forms are sent to the Data Center for quality control. Weekly
reports allow for rapid feedback to the sites.

DOI: 10.1186/1742-4755-10-55 
PMCID: PMC3852796
PMID: 24119247  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1069. Plant Biotechnol J. 2014 Feb;12(2):161-73. doi: 10.1111/pbi.12123. Epub 2013 Sep 
24.

Comparative transcriptome analysis between somatic embryos (SEs) and zygotic
embryos in cotton: evidence for stress response functions in SE development.

Jin F(1), Hu L, Yuan D, Xu J, Gao W, He L, Yang X, Zhang X.

Author information: 
(1)National Key Laboratory of Crop Genetic Improvement, Huazhong Agricultural
University, Wuhan, Hubei, China.

As a product of asexual reproduction in plants, the somatic embryo (SE)
differentiates into a new plantlet via a zygotic embryogenesis-like process.
Here, we present the phenotypic and cellular differences between SEs and zygotic 
embryos (ZEs) revealed by histological section scanning using three parallel
development stages of the two types of embryos of cotton (Gossypium hirsutum cv. 
YZ1), including globular, torpedo and cotyledonary-stages. To identify the
molecular characteristics of SE development in cotton, the digital gene
expression system was used to profile the genes active during SE and ZE
development. A total of 4242 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were
identified in at least one developmental stage. Expression pattern and functional
classification analysis based on these DEGs reveals that SE development exhibits 
a transcriptional activation of stress responses. RT-PCR analysis further
confirmed enhanced expression levels of stress-related genes in SEs than in ZEs. 
Experimental stress treatment, induced by NaCl and ABA, accelerated SE
development and increased the transcription of genes related to stress response, 
in parallel with decelerated proliferation of embryogenic calluses under stress
treatment. Our data reveal that SE development involves the activation of stress 
responses, which we suggest may regulate the balance between cell proliferation
and differentiation. These results provide new insight into the molecular
mechanisms of SE development and suggest strategies that can be used for
regulating the developmental processes of somatic embryogenesis.

© 2013 Society for Experimental Biology, Association of Applied Biologists and
John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/pbi.12123 
PMID: 24112122  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1070. Vet Rec. 2013 Dec 14;173(23):582. doi: 10.1136/vr.101802. Epub 2013 Oct 7.

Digital dermatitis in beef cattle.

Sullivan LE(1), Carter SD, Blowey R, Duncan JS, Grove-White D, Evans NJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infection Biology, School of Veterinary Science, Institute of
infection and Global Health, Liverpool, Merseyside L3 5RF, UK.

Comment in
    Vet Rec. 2013 Dec 14;173(23):577-8.

DOI: 10.1136/vr.101802 
PMID: 24106250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1071. Clin Chem. 2013 Dec;59(12):1691-3. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2013.214742. Epub 2013
Oct 7.

Digital PCR as a novel technology and its potential implications for molecular
diagnostics.

Huggett JF(1), Whale A.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Cell Biology, LGC Ltd., Teddington, UK.

Comment on
    Clin Chem. 2013 Dec;59(12):1732-41.
    Clin Chem. 2013 Dec;59(12):1722-31.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2013.214742 
PMID: 24100808  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1072. PLoS One. 2013 Sep 30;8(9):e75485. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0075485. eCollection
2013.

Genome aberrations in canine mammary carcinomas and their detection in cell-free 
plasma DNA.

Beck J(1), Hennecke S, Bornemann-Kolatzki K, Urnovitz HB, Neumann S, Ströbel P,
Kaup FJ, Brenig B, Schütz E.

Author information: 
(1)Chronix Biomedical, Göttingen, Germany.

Mammary tumors are the most frequent cancers in female dogs exhibiting a variety 
of histopathological differences. There is lack of knowledge about the genomes of
these common dog tumors. Five tumors of three different histological subtypes
were evaluated. Massive parallel sequencing (MPS) was performed in comparison to 
the respective somatic genome of each animal. Copy number and structural
aberrations were validated using droplet digital PCR (ddPCR). Using mate-pair
sequencing chromosomal aneuploidies were found in two tumors, frequent smaller
deletions were found in one, inter-chromosomal fusions in one other, whereas one 
tumor was almost normal. These aberrations affect several known cancer associated
genes such as cMYC, and KIT. One common deletion of the proximal end of CFA27,
harboring the tumor suppressor gene PFDN5 was detected in four tumors. Using
ddPCR, this deletion was validated and detected in 50% of tumors (N = 20).
Breakpoint specific dPCRs were established for four tumors and tumor specific
cell-free DNA (cfDNA) was detected in the plasma. In one animal tumor-specific
cfDNA was found >1 year after surgery, attributable to a lung metastasis.
Paired-end sequencing proved that copy-number imbalances of the tumor are
reflected by the cfDNA. This report on chromosomal instability of canine mammary 
cancers reveals similarities to human breast cancers as well as special canine
alterations. This animal model provides a framework for using MPS for screening
for individual cancer biomarkers with cost effective confirmation and monitoring 
using ddPCR. The possibility exists that ddPCR can be expanded to screening for
common cancer related variants.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0075485 
PMCID: PMC3787092
PMID: 24098698  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1073. BMC Genomics. 2013 Oct 6;14:687. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-687.

Genome-wide transcriptional analysis of two soybean genotypes under dehydration
and rehydration conditions.

Chen LM(1), Zhou XA, Li WB, Chang W, Zhou R, Wang C, Sha AH, Shan ZH, Zhang CJ,
Qiu DZ, Yang ZL, Chen SL.

Author information: 
(1)Oil Crops Research Institute of Chinese Academy of Agriculture Sciences, Wuhan
430062, China. zhouocri@sina.com.

BACKGROUND: Soybean is an important crop that provides valuable proteins and oils
for human use. Because soybean growth and development is extremely sensitive to
water deficit, quality and crop yields are severely impacted by drought stress.
In the face of limited water resources, drought-responsive genes are therefore of
interest. Identification and analysis of dehydration- and rehydration-inducible
differentially expressed genes (DEGs) would not only aid elucidation of molecular
mechanisms of stress response, but also enable improvement of crop stress
tolerance via gene transfer. Using Digital Gene Expression Tag profiling (DGE), a
new technique based on Illumina sequencing, we analyzed expression profiles
between two soybean genotypes to identify drought-responsive genes.
RESULTS: Two soybean genotypes - drought-tolerant Jindou21 and drought-sensitive 
Zhongdou33 - were subjected to dehydration and rehydration conditions. For
analysis of DEGs under dehydration conditions, 20 cDNA libraries were generated
from roots and leaves at two different time points under well-watered and
dehydration conditions. We also generated eight libraries for analysis under
rehydration conditions. Sequencing of the 28 libraries produced 25,000-33,000
unambiguous tags, which were mapped to reference sequences for annotation of
expressed genes. Many genes exhibited significant expression differences among
the libraries. DEGs in the drought-tolerant genotype were identified by
comparison of DEGs among treatments and genotypes. In Jindou21, 518 and 614 genes
were differentially expressed under dehydration in leaves and roots,
respectively, with 24 identified both in leaves and roots. The main functional
categories enriched in these DEGs were metabolic process, response to stresses,
plant hormone signal transduction, protein processing, and plant-pathogen
interaction pathway; the associated genes primarily encoded transcription
factors, protein kinases, and other regulatory proteins. The seven most
significantly expressed (|log2 ratio| ≥ 8) genes - Glyma15g03920, Glyma05g02470, 
Glyma15g15010, Glyma05g09070, Glyma06g35630, Glyma08g12590, and Glyma11g16000 -
are more likely to determine drought stress tolerance. The expression patterns of
eight randomly-selected genes were confirmed by quantitative RT-PCR; the results 
of QRT-PCR analysis agreed with transcriptional profile data for 96 out of 128
(75%) data points.
CONCLUSIONS: Many soybean genes were differentially expressed between
drought-tolerant and drought-sensitive genotypes. Based on GO functional
annotation and pathway enrichment analysis, some of these genes encoded
transcription factors, protein kinases, and other regulatory proteins. The seven 
most significant DEGs are candidates for improving soybean drought tolerance.
These findings will be helpful for analysis and elucidation of molecular
mechanisms of drought tolerance; they also provide a basis for cultivating new
varieties of drought-tolerant soybean.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-687 
PMCID: PMC3827939
PMID: 24093224  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1074. Stem Cell Res. 2013 Nov;11(3):1299-313. doi: 10.1016/j.scr.2013.09.001. Epub 2013
Sep 13.

MicroRNA-137 represses Klf4 and Tbx3 during differentiation of mouse embryonic
stem cells.

Jiang K(1), Ren C, Nair VD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY 10029,
USA.

MicroRNA-137 (miR-137) has been shown to play an important role in the
differentiation of neural stem cells. Embryonic stem (ES) cells have the
potential to differentiate into different cell types including neurons; however, 
the contribution of miR-137 in the maintenance and differentiation of ES cells
remains unknown. Here, we show that miR-137 is mainly expressed in ES cells at
the mitotic phase of the cell cycle and highly upregulated during
differentiation. We identify that ES cell transcription factors, Klf4 and Tbx3,
are downstream targets of miR-137, and we show that endogenous miR-137 represses 
the 3' untranslated regions of Klf4 and Tbx3. Transfection of ES cells with
mature miR-137 RNA duplexes led to a significant reduction in cell proliferation 
and the expression of Klf4, Tbx3, and other self-renewal genes. Furthermore, we
demonstrate that increased miR-137 expression accelerates differentiation of ES
cells in vitro. Loss of miR-137 during ES cell differentiation significantly
impeded neuronal gene expression and morphogenesis. Taken together, our results
suggest that miR-137 regulates ES cell proliferation and differentiation by
repressing the expression of downstream targets, including Klf4 and Tbx3.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scr.2013.09.001 
PMID: 24084696  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1075. Eur J Med Res. 2013 Sep 30;18:34. doi: 10.1186/2047-783X-18-34.

Effect of bone-marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells on high-potential
hepatocellular carcinoma in mouse models: an intervention study.

Li T(1), Song B, Du X, Wei Z, Huo T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, The 95th Hospital of PLA, PuTian, FuJian Province
351100, China. lizhaoruixin@sina.com.

BACKGROUND: There are two completely contradictory views regarding the impact of 
human bone-marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) on hepatocellular
carcinomas (HCCs). The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of hMSC
engraftment on HCC tissues in nude mouse models, and assess the effect on
metastatic potential of HCC.
METHODS: hMSCs were engrafted into the nude mouse models of high metastatic HCC
via the tail vein. The mice in the experimental group were engrafted with hMSCs
(5 × 105 cells per mouse) via the tail vein 15 days after inoculation of tumor
cells, twice a week, while the animals in the control group were injected with
hMSC culture medium (0.2 mL per mouse) via the tail vein. The subcutaneous tumor 
size was measured using an electronic digital caliper once every 4 days after
hMSC engraftment. After 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 weeks of tumor cell inoculation, the
mice were killed and the tumors were collected in their entirety. The tumor
weights and body weights of mice were measured, and the tumor inhibition rate was
calculated. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was used to
determine the expression of metastasis-related genes including osteopontin (OPN),
bone sialoprotein (BSP) and integrin α5 subunit (α-V) in the mouse models of
high-metastatic HCC, and the expression of apoptosis-related genes including B
cell lymphoma/leukemia-2 (Bcl2), Bcl-2 associated X protein (Bax) and caspase 3
in tumor samples.
RESULTS: The tumor weight inhibition rate was 26.62% at 2 weeks, 52.00% at 3
weeks, 38.20% at 4 weeks, 31.98% at 5 weeks, and 30.23% at 6 weeks. Tumor tissue 
weight comparison results were significantly lower in the hMSC engraftment groups
than in the control group at the second and third weeks. The expression of
metastasis-related factors OPN, BSP and α-V gene was downregulated with time. The
expression of antiapoptotic gene Bcl2 exhibited an obvious declining tendency,
while the expression of apoptotic genes Bax and caspase 3 showed an obvious
rising tendency. The expression of α-V and BSP significantly correlated
positively with the expression of Bcl2, and negatively correlated with the
expression of Bax and caspase 3. The tumor inhibition rate was not significantly 
correlated with the expression of antiapoptotic and apoptotic factors, and α-V
and BSP factors, though it exhibited a significantly negative correlation with
the expression of OPN.
CONCLUSIONS: The highest tumor inhibition rate was observed 3 weeks after hMSCs
engraftment, and the tumor inhibition rate gradually reduced with the progression
of time. The metastatic potential of tumor cells was downregulated after hMSC
engraftment and hMSCs induce further tumor cells apoptosis. The decrease in the
proliferation ability of tumor cells may induce a decline in metastatic potential
in tumor cells.

DOI: 10.1186/2047-783X-18-34 
PMCID: PMC3850116
PMID: 24079479  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1076. PLoS One. 2013 Sep 20;8(9):e75296. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0075296. eCollection
2013.

Evaluation of digital PCR for absolute RNA quantification.

Sanders R(1), Mason DJ, Foy CA, Huggett JF.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Cell Biology, LGC, Teddington, United Kingdom ; Cardiff School
of BioSciences, The Sir Martin Evans Building, Cardiff, United Kingdom.

Gene expression measurements detailing mRNA quantities are widely employed in
molecular biology and are increasingly important in diagnostic fields. Reverse
transcription (RT), necessary for generating complementary DNA, can be both
inefficient and imprecise, but remains a quintessential RNA analysis tool using
qPCR. This study developed a Transcriptomic Calibration Material and assessed the
RT reaction using digital (d)PCR for RNA measurement. While many studies
characterise dPCR capabilities for DNA quantification, less work has been
performed investigating similar parameters using RT-dPCR for RNA analysis.
RT-dPCR measurement using three, one-step RT-qPCR kits was evaluated using single
and multiplex formats when measuring endogenous and synthetic RNAs. The best
performing kit was compared to UV quantification and sensitivity and technical
reproducibility investigated. Our results demonstrate assay and kit dependent
RT-dPCR measurements differed significantly compared to UV quantification.
Different values were reported by different kits for each target, despite
evaluation of identical samples using the same instrument. RT-dPCR did not
display the strong inter-assay agreement previously described when analysing DNA.
This study demonstrates that, as with DNA measurement, RT-dPCR is capable of
accurate quantification of low copy RNA targets, but the results are both kit and
target dependent supporting the need for calibration controls.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0075296 
PMCID: PMC3779174
PMID: 24073259  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1077. Mol Biol Rep. 2013 Oct;40(10):5657-68. doi: 10.1007/s11033-013-2667-3. Epub 2013 
Sep 26.

Transcriptome profiling and digital gene expression analysis of Nile tilapia
(Oreochromis niloticus) infected by Streptococcus agalactiae.

Zhang R(1), Zhang LL, Ye X, Tian YY, Sun CF, Lu MX, Bai JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Tropical & Subtropical Fisheries Resource Application &
Cultivation, China Ministry of Agriculture, Pearl River Fisheries Institute,
Chinese Academy of Fishery Sciences, Guangzhou, 510380, China.

Tilapia is an important freshwater aquaculture species worldwide. In recent
years, streptococcal diseases have severely threatened development of tilapia
aquaculture, while effective prevention and control methods have not yet been
established. In order to understand the immunological response of tilapia to
infection by Streptococcus agalactiae (S. agalactiae), this study employed
Solexa/Illumina RNA-seq and digital gene expression (DGE) technology to
investigate changes in the tilapia transcriptome before and after S. agalactiae
infection. We obtained 82,799 unigenes (mean size: 618 bp) using de novo
assembly. Unigenes were annotated by comparing against databases including Nr,
Swissprot, cluster of orthologous groups of proteins, Kyoto encyclopedia of genes
and genomes, and gene ontology. Combined with DGE technology, transcriptomic
changes in tilapia before and after bacteria challenging were examined. A total
of 774 significantly up-regulated and 625 significantly down-regulated unigenes
were identified, among which 293 were mapped to 181 signaling pathways including 
17 immune-related pathways involving 65 differentially expressed genes. We
observed a change in the expression of six genes in the Toll-like receptor
signaling pathway, and this was subsequently confirmed via quantitative real-time
PCR. This comparative study of the tilapia transcriptome before and after S.
agalactiae infection identified important differentially-expressed immune-related
genes and signaling pathways that will provide useful insights for further
analysis of the mechanisms of tilapia defense against S. agalactiae infection.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-013-2667-3 
PMID: 24068429  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1078. Clin Chem. 2013 Dec;59(12):1732-41. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2013.210328. Epub 2013 
Sep 23.

Digital droplet PCR for rapid quantification of donor DNA in the circulation of
transplant recipients as a potential universal biomarker of graft injury.

Beck J(1), Bierau S, Balzer S, Andag R, Kanzow P, Schmitz J, Gaedcke J, Moerer O,
Slotta JE, Walson P, Kollmar O, Oellerich M, Schütz E.

Author information: 
(1)Chronix Biomedical, Göttingen, Germany;

Comment in
    Clin Chem. 2013 Dec;59(12):1691-3.

BACKGROUND: Cell-free DNA (cfDNA) from grafts in the circulation of transplant
recipients is a potential biomarker of rejection. Its usefulness was investigated
after heart transplantation during the maintenance phase by use of microarrays
and massive parallel sequencing of donor and recipient DNA. Disadvantages of
these methods are high costs, long turnaround times, and need for donor DNA.
Therefore, we sought to develop a rapid and cost-effective method using digital
droplet PCR (ddPCR).
METHODS: Plasma samples were collected from stable recipients after liver (LTx, n
= 10), kidney (KTx, n = 9), and heart (HTx, n = 8) transplantation as well as
from 7 additional patients directly after LTx. Known single-nucleotide
polymorphisms were selected for high minor allelic frequencies, of which 41
hydrolysis probe assays were established. Plasma cfDNA was preamplified, followed
by conventional real-time PCR to define informative (heterologous) SNPs, which
were then used for quantification (percentage) of graft-derived cfDNA (GcfDNA)
using ddPCR.
RESULTS: Mean recovery was 94% (SD, 13%) with an imprecision of 4%-14% with the
use of controls with 2% minor allele. GcfDNA in stable patients was <6.8% (LTx), 
<2.5% (KTx), and <3.4% (HTx). On the day of LTx, GcfDNA was approximately 90% and
by day 10 it was <15% in complication-free LTx recipients. In 2 patients with
biopsy-proven rejection, GcfDNA increased to >60%, whereas in 1 patient with
cholestasis no increase was found.
CONCLUSIONS: A novel, cost-effective, rapid technique was developed to quantify
GcfDNA in transplant recipients. This technique embodies a promising, potentially
universal biomarker for early detection of rejection, which could enable more
effective therapeutic interventions.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2013.210328 
PMID: 24061615  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1079. Mol Genet Genomics. 2013 Dec;288(12):671-81. doi: 10.1007/s00438-013-0780-6. Epub
2013 Sep 24.

Validation of reference transcripts in strawberry (Fragaria spp.).

Clancy MA(1), Rosli HG, Chamala S, Barbazuk WB, Civello PM, Folta KM.

Author information: 
(1)Horticultural Sciences Department, University of Florida, 1301 Fifield Hall,
Gainesville, FL, 32611, USA.

Contemporary methods to assay gene expression depend on a stable set of reference
transcripts for accurate quantitation. A lack of well-tested reference genes
slows progress in characterizing gene expression in high-value specialty crops.
In this study, a set of strawberry (Fragaria spp.) constitutively expressed
reference genes has been identified by merging digital gene expression data with 
expression profiling. Constitutive reference candidates were validated using
quantitative PCR and hybridization. Several transcripts have been identified that
show improved stability across tissues relative to traditional reference
transcripts. Results are similar between commercial octoploid strawberry and the 
diploid model. Our findings also show that while some never-before-used
references are appropriate for most applications, even the most stable reference 
transcripts require careful assessment across the diverse tissues and fruit
developmental states before being adopted as controls.

DOI: 10.1007/s00438-013-0780-6 
PMID: 24061528  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1080. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 Oct 1;110(40):16163-8. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1307876110. Epub 2013 Sep 16.

Localizing transcripts to single cells suggests an important role of uncultured
deltaproteobacteria in the termite gut hydrogen economy.

Rosenthal AZ(1), Zhang X, Lucey KS, Ottesen EA, Trivedi V, Choi HM, Pierce NA,
Leadbetter JR.

Author information: 
(1)Ronald and Maxine Linde Center for Global Environmental Science, Department of
Bioengineering, and Department of Computing and Mathematical Sciences, California
Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA 91125.

Identifying microbes responsible for particular environmental functions is
challenging, given that most environments contain an uncultivated microbial
diversity. Here we combined approaches to identify bacteria expressing genes
relevant to catabolite flow and to locate these genes within their environment,
in this case the gut of a "lower," wood-feeding termite. First, environmental
transcriptomics revealed that 2 of the 23 formate dehydrogenase (FDH) genes known
in the system accounted for slightly more than one-half of environmental
transcripts. FDH is an essential enzyme of H2 metabolism that is ultimately
important for the assimilation of lignocellulose-derived energy by the insect.
Second, single-cell PCR analysis revealed that two different bacterial types
expressed these two transcripts. The most commonly transcribed FDH in situ is
encoded by a previously unappreciated deltaproteobacterium, whereas the other FDH
is spirochetal. Third, PCR analysis of fractionated gut contents demonstrated
that these bacteria reside in different spatial niches; the spirochete is
free-swimming, whereas the deltaproteobacterium associates with particulates.
Fourth, the deltaproteobacteria expressing FDH were localized to protozoa via
hybridization chain reaction-FISH, an approach for multiplexed, spatial mapping
of mRNA and rRNA targets. These results underscore the importance of making
direct vs. inference-based gene-species associations, and have implications in
higher termites, the most successful termite lineage, in which protozoa have been
lost from the gut community. Contrary to expectations, in higher termites, FDH
genes related to those from the protozoan symbiont dominate, whereas most others 
were absent, suggesting that a successful gene variant can persist and flourish
after a gut perturbation alters a major environmental niche.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1307876110 
PMCID: PMC3791709
PMID: 24043823  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1081. J Virol Methods. 2013 Dec;194(1-2):229-34. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2013.08.027.
Epub 2013 Sep 12.

Specific qPCR assays for the detection of orf virus, pseudocowpox virus and
bovine papular stomatitis virus.

Zhao H(1), Wilkins K, Damon IK, Li Y.

Author information: 
(1)Poxvirus and Rabies Branch, Division of High-Consequence Pathogens and
Pathology, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA, United States.

The genus Parapoxvirus (PAPV) is comprised traditionally of orf virus (ORFV),
pseudocowpox virus (PCPV) and bovine papular stomatitis virus (BPSV), which cause
infections of ruminants and their handlers in the U.S. and worldwide. Unlike
orthopoxvirus infections, which can cause systemic or localized infections, PAPV 
infections present normally as benign, self-limited and localized skin lesions;
infections do not confer lifelong immunity. In recent years, related potentially 
to enhanced awareness and the availability of diagnostic methods, there has been 
an observed increase in reported cases of PAPV in animals and humans. This study 
describes TaqMan based real-time PCR assays for both generic and specific
detection of PAPV species for surveillance and outbreak investigations. These
assays target highly conserved PAPV RNA polymerase gene sequences and are capable
of detecting three known species of PAPVs (ORFV, PCPV, and BPSV). The assays were
evaluated using a panel of PAPV DNA derived from human infections or animal
specimen remainders. The sensitivities of all four assays were determined using
droplet digital PCR; fewer than 10 copies of clinical PAPV DNA can be detected
consistently. These assays provide a reliable and sensitive method for rapid
confirmation and characterization PAPV infections with varying clinical
presentations.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2013.08.027 
PMID: 24035807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1082. Semin Arthritis Rheum. 2014 Feb;43(4):566-9. doi:
10.1016/j.semarthrit.2013.07.015. Epub 2013 Sep 5.

Pachydermoperiostosis in an African patient caused by a Chinese/Japanese SLCO2A1 
mutation-case report and review of literature.

Madruga Dias JA(1), Rosa RS(2), Perpétuo I(3), Rodrigues AM(4), Janeiro A(5),
Costa MM(6), Gaião L(3), Pereira da Silva JA(6), Fonseca JE(4),
Miltenberger-Miltenyi G(5).

Author information: 
(1)Rheumatology Research Unit, Instituto de Medicina Molecular, Faculty of
Medicine, University of Lisbon, Lisbon, Portugal; Rheumatology Department, Santa 
Maria Hospital, C.H.L.N., Lisbon, Portugal. Electronic address:
joao_alexandre@hotmail.com. (2)Ophthalmology Department, São José Hospital,
C.H.L.C., Lisbon, Portugal. (3)Rheumatology Research Unit, Instituto de Medicina 
Molecular, Faculty of Medicine, University of Lisbon, Lisbon, Portugal.
(4)Rheumatology Research Unit, Instituto de Medicina Molecular, Faculty of
Medicine, University of Lisbon, Lisbon, Portugal; Rheumatology Department, Santa 
Maria Hospital, C.H.L.N., Lisbon, Portugal. (5)Genomed, Instituto de Medicina
Molecular, Faculty of Medicine, University of Lisbon, Lisbon, Portugal.
(6)Rheumatology Department, Santa Maria Hospital, C.H.L.N., Lisbon, Portugal.

OBJECTIVES: Pachydermoperiostosis is a rare clinical entity characterized by skin
thickening of the forehead, eyelids, and hands, digital clubbing, and
periostosis. Two genes have been associated, HPGD and recently SLCO2A1. We
present a detailed clinical and genetic description of an African
pachydermoperiostosis patient with a SLCO2A1 mutation.
METHODS: Standard clinical and laboratory evaluation was carried out. Genetic
screening was done with PCR followed by direct sequencing. We discuss the
clinical features and known mutations of previously reported cases identified
through a PubMed literature review.
RESULTS: The clinical findings showed special features, including exuberant knee 
effusions and an extraordinary good response on surgery of the blepharoptosis. We
found a splice site mutation in the SLCO2A1 gene in homozygous form: c.940+1G>A. 
This mutation was previously reported only in 1 Chinese and 3 Japanese cases and 
was considered as a founder mutation in Japan. Beside our case, only one other
patient in the literature carried this mutation in homozygous condition, but with
different main clinical symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: Our case demonstrates phenotypic heterogeneity of PDP even between
homozygous carriers of the same mutation, suggesting further modifiers. Besides, 
it shows that this rare SLCO2A1 mutation is not exclusively present in East-Asia,
but can occur in various ethnicities, with different origin, thus the incidence
is probably underestimated.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semarthrit.2013.07.015 
PMID: 24012041  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1083. Skin Pharmacol Physiol. 2014;27(2):71-81. doi: 10.1159/000351387. Epub 2013 Sep
5.

Pentacyclic triterpenes from Terminalia arjuna show multiple benefits on aged and
dry skin.

Farwick M(1), Köhler T, Schild J, Mentel M, Maczkiewitz U, Pagani V, Bonfigli A, 
Rigano L, Bureik D, Gauglitz GG.

Author information: 
(1)Evonik Industries AG, Essen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Pentacyclic triterpenoids improve epidermal barrier function and
induce collagen production. Here, their effects on cutaneous aging by means of
objective instrumental measurements were elucidated.
METHODS: Reconstituted human epidermis, cultivated keratinocytes and fibroblasts 
were incubated with Terminalia arjuna triterpenes (T. arjuna bark extract), and
mRNA and protein expression of various genes was determined using microarray
analysis, qRT-PCR and ELISA techniques. Clinical efficacy of T. arjuna bark
extract versus vehicle control cream was elucidated in 30 patients and
transepidermal water loss (TEWL), skin hydration and elasticity were measured.
Another 30 female patients in their postmenopausal phase were treated with a
similar regime, and skin sebum content, cutaneous blood microcirculation and skin
density/echogenicity were assessed.
RESULTS: Incubation with T. arjuna triterpenes increased FGF-2, TSP-1, TGF-β and 
CTGF expression, and VEGF secretion in vitro. Elevated lactate dehydrogenase
release upon sodium dodecyl sulphate challenge was reversed by the application of
T. arjuna bark extract. T. arjuna bark extract decreased TEWL, improved skin
moisturization, reduced scaliness and led to significantly improved skin
elasticity. Also, increases in blood microflow and skin sebum content as well as 
improved skin thickness/echogenicity were noted on postmenopausal skin, resulting
in visible reduction of sagging skin on the jowls as demonstrated by digital
photography.
CONCLUSION: T. arjuna bark extract appears as an innovative active ingredient
that exerts versatile antiaging properties in vitro and in vivo.

DOI: 10.1159/000351387 
PMID: 24008587  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1084. Clin Chem. 2013 Nov;59(11):1670-2. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2013.211045. Epub 2013
Sep 3.

Tolerance of droplet-digital PCR vs real-time quantitative PCR to inhibitory
substances.

Dingle TC(1), Sedlak RH, Cook L, Jerome KR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine University of Washington Seattle, WA.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2013.211045 
PMCID: PMC4247175
PMID: 24003063  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1085. Zh Mikrobiol Epidemiol Immunobiol. 2013 May-Jun;(3):31-8.

[Presence of Yersinia enterocolitica in conditions of agro complex].

[Article in Russian]

Iurova MA, Pushkareva VI, Poliakov VIu.

AIM: Detection of duration of existence of Yersinia enterocolitica in substrates 
ofagro complex and formation of biofilms by causative agent during artificial
semination of forage and meat products.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Y. enterocolitica 09 strain and its rifampicin-resistant
(Rmr) mutant were used. Microbial landscape of samples was studied by seeding on 
selective media (HiMedia), biochemical properties of isolates were controlled on 
API test-systems (Bio-Merieux). The presence ofyopA gene localized on virulence
plasmid pCad was determined in PCR. Vital staining of biofilms was carried out by
Live/Dead stain (Invitrogen, USA). Visualization of the data was registered by
using GMS-510 (USA) microscope with digital camera and Skope Photo software
(USA). Formation ofyersinia bacterial biofilms was confirmed by using scanning
electron microscope (SEM) JSM6380 (Japan).
RESULTS: Prolonged duration of existence of Y. enterocolitica in substrates of
agro complex with conservation of pCad virulence plasmid by causative agent was
detected. SEM demonstrated stages of biofilm formation during artificial
semination of animal forage, meat products and materials of food equipment in a
wide range of temperatures from 10 to 30 degrees C, and vital stain detected
viable yersinia in mature biofilms.
CONCLUSION: Agro complexes are a variant oftechnogenic foci where ecological
conditions for prolonged existence of sapronosis are formed.


PMID: 24000591  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1086. Prenat Diagn. 2013 Dec;33(12):1214-6. doi: 10.1002/pd.4230. Epub 2013 Sep 19.

Noninvasive fetal RHD genotyping by microfluidics digital PCR using maternal
plasma from two alloimmunized women with the variant RHD(IVS3+1G>A) allele.

Tsui NB(1), Hyland CA, Gardener GJ, Danon D, Fisk NM, Millard G, Flower RL, Lo
YM.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Research into Circulating Fetal Nucleic Acids, Li Ka Shing
Institute of Health Sciences, Hong Kong, China; Department of Chemical Pathology,
The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.

DOI: 10.1002/pd.4230 
PMID: 23999893  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1087. Nat Methods. 2013 Oct;10(10):1003-5. doi: 10.1038/nmeth.2633. Epub 2013 Sep 1.

Absolute quantification by droplet digital PCR versus analog real-time PCR.

Hindson CM(1), Chevillet JR, Briggs HA, Gallichotte EN, Ruf IK, Hindson BJ,
Vessella RL, Tewari M.

Author information: 
(1)1] Digital Biology Center, Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc., Pleasanton, California,
USA. [2] [3].

Nanoliter-sized droplet technology paired with digital PCR (ddPCR) holds promise 
for highly precise, absolute nucleic acid quantification. Our comparison of
microRNA quantification by ddPCR and real-time PCR revealed greater precision
(coefficients of variation decreased 37-86%) and improved day-to-day
reproducibility (by a factor of seven) of ddPCR but with comparable sensitivity. 
When we applied ddPCR to serum microRNA biomarker analysis, this translated to
superior diagnostic performance for identifying individuals with cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/nmeth.2633 
PMCID: PMC4118677
PMID: 23995387  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1088. PLoS One. 2013 Aug 20;8(8):e72314. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0072314. eCollection
2013.

Transcriptome analysis of chlorantraniliprole resistance development in the
diamondback moth Plutella xylostella.

Lin Q(1), Jin F, Hu Z, Chen H, Yin F, Li Z, Dong X, Zhang D, Ren S, Feng X.

Author information: 
(1)Insititute of Plant Protection, Guangdong Academy of Agricultural Sciences,
Guangzhou, PR China.

BACKGROUND: The diamondback moth Plutella xyllostella has developed a high level 
of resistance to the latest insecticide chlorantraniliprole. A better
understanding of P. xylostella's resistance mechanism to chlorantraniliprole is
needed to develop effective approaches for insecticide resistance management.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: To provide a comprehensive insight into the resistance
mechanisms of P. xylostella to chlorantraniliprole, transcriptome assembly and
tag-based digital gene expression (DGE) system were performed using Illumina
HiSeq™ 2000. The transcriptome analysis of the susceptible strain (SS) provided
45,231 unigenes (with the size ranging from 200 bp to 13,799 bp), which would be 
efficient for analyzing the differences in different
chlorantraniliprole-resistant P. xylostella stains. DGE analysis indicated that a
total of 1215 genes (189 up-regulated and 1026 down-regulated) were gradient
differentially expressed among the susceptible strain (SS) and different
chlorantraniliprole-resistant P. xylostella strains, including low-level
resistance (GXA), moderate resistance (LZA) and high resistance strains (HZA). A 
detailed analysis of gradient differentially expressed genes elucidated the
existence of a phase-dependent divergence of biological investment at the
molecular level. The genes related to insecticide resistance, such as P450, GST, 
the ryanodine receptor, and connectin, had different expression profiles in the
different chlorantraniliprole-resistant DGE libraries, suggesting that the genes 
related to insecticide resistance are involved in P. xylostella resistance
development against chlorantraniliprole. To confirm the results from the DGE, the
expressional profiles of 4 genes related to insecticide resistance were further
validated by qRT-PCR analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: The obtained transcriptome information provides large gene resources
available for further studying the resistance development of P. xylostella to
pesticides. The DGE data provide comprehensive insights into the gene expression 
profiles of the different chlorantraniliprole-resistant stains. These genes are
specifically related to insecticide resistance, with different expressional
profiles facilitating the study of the role of each gene in chlorantraniliprole
resistance development.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0072314 
PMCID: PMC3748044
PMID: 23977278  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1089. Chimerism. 2013 Jul-Sep;4(3):102-8. doi: 10.4161/chim.25400. Epub 2013 Jun 20.

Detection and quantification of chimerism by droplet digital PCR.

George D(1), Czech J, John B, Yu M, Jennings LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine; Ann & Robert H. Lurie
Children's Hospital of Chicago; Chicago, IL USA.

Accurate quantification of chimerism and microchimerism is proving to be
increasingly valuable for hematopoietic cell transplantation as well as
non-transplant conditions. However, methods that are available to quantify
low-level chimerism lack accuracy. Therefore, we developed and validated a method
for quantifying chimerism based on digital PCR technology. We demonstrate
accurate quantification that far exceeds what is possible with analog qPCR down
to 0.01% with the potential to go even lower. Also, this method is inherently
more informative than qPCR. We expect the advantages of digital PCR will make it 
the preferred method for chimerism analysis.

DOI: 10.4161/chim.25400 
PMCID: PMC3782543
PMID: 23974275  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1090. Plant Mol Biol. 2013 Aug 20. [Epub ahead of print]

Association of jacalin-related lectins with wheat responses to stresses revealed 
by transcriptional profiling.

Song M(1), Xu W, Xiang Y, Jia H, Zhang L, Ma Z.

Author information: 
(1)Crop Genomics and Bioinformatics Center and National Key Laboratory of Crop
Genetics and Germplasm Enhancement, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing,
210095, Jiangsu, People's Republic of China.

Jacalin-related lectins (JRLs) are carbohydrate-binding proteins widely present
in plants and have one or more jacalin domains in common. However, JRLs'
structural types and functions are still poorly understood. In the present study,
a total of 67 wheat (Triticum aestivum) JRL genes were identified through an
exhausted search of EST database coupling with genome walking using published 454
sequence reads of Chinese Spring. A comparison of the translated wheat JRL
proteins with those from other plants showed plant JRLs generally had low
sequence similarity within and between species but exhibited conserved modular
domain structures. More JRL genes encoded multiple jacalin domains in Arabidopsis
thaliana, whereas more genes encoded chimeric JRLs in cereal plants. Dirigent
domain-containing JRL genes were Poaceae-specific and accounted for nearly half
of the identified wheat JRL genes. The dirigent domains were evolutionarily
significantly correlated with the covalently linked jacalin domains. A
phylogenetic analysis showed JRL proteins have experienced a substantial
diversification after speciation. Moreover, new structural features conserved
across the taxa were identified. Digital expression analysis and RT-PCR assays
showed the expression of wheat JRL genes was largely tissue specific, typically
low, and mostly inducible by biotic and abiotic stresses and stress hormones.
These results suggest plant JRLs are critical for plant adaptation to stressful
environments.

DOI: 10.1007/s11103-013-0121-5 
PMID: 23959941 


1091. Zhongguo Zhong Yao Za Zhi. 2013 May;38(10):1471-8.

[Abnormal change of calcium signal system on consecutive monoculture problem of
Rehmannia glutinosa].

[Article in Chinese]

Guo GY(1), Li MJ, Wang PF, Wang FQ, He HQ, Li J, Zheng HY, Chen XJ, Zhang ZY.

Author information: 
(1)School of Agronomy, Henan Agricultural University, Zhengzhou 450002, China.
ying_gill@163.com

Based on the early transcriptome and digital differentially expressed profiling
library construction in consecutive monoculture (two-year culturing) Rehmannia
glutinosa, we screened and chose the twelve differentially expressed protein
genes which might be related with calcium signal system. The spatiotemporal
expression of these genes was measured by the real-time quantitative PCR, and the
relative expression values of the genes related with calcium signal system in
different development stages and tissues of normal growth (one-year culturing)
and succession cropping of R. glutinosa (two-year culturing) was elaborated in
detail. In addition, disposed succession cropping of R. glutinosa was treated
with different levels of calcium signal blocking agents in order to verify the
mode of action of calcium signal system on consecutive monoculture problem in R. 
glutinosa. Among the twelve genes, two calcium channels away from the cytoplasm
were down-regulated expressed, while the ten calcium channels toward the
cytoplasm were up-regulated expressed. The results implied that succession
cropping caused calcium ions flowing from endoplasmic reticulum to cytoplasm.
While the key genes in calcium signal respond components such as CBL, CBP, CIBP, 
PLC, etc. were down-regulated expressed significantly in succession cropping of
R. glutinosa which were disposed with calcium signal blocking agents, the extent 
of the damage was relieved, and approached the normal growth (one-year culturing)
level. This result strongly showed that calcium signal system participated in the
perceiving, conducting and magnifying processes of succession cropping obstacles 
of R. glutinosa.


PMID: 23947119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1092. BMC Genomics. 2013 Aug 13;14:548. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-548.

De novo characterization of Larix gmelinii (Rupr.) Rupr. transcriptome and
analysis of its gene expression induced by jasmonates.

Men L(1), Yan S, Liu G.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Tree Genetics and Breeding, Northeast Forestry
University, No, 26 Hexing Road, Harbin 150040, P, R, China. yanshanchun@126.com.

BACKGROUND: Larix gmelinii is a dominant tree species in China's boreal forests
and plays an important role in the coniferous ecosystem. It is also one of the
most economically important tree species in the Chinese timber industry due to
excellent water resistance and anti-corrosion of its wood products.
Unfortunately, in Northeast China, L. gmelinii often suffers from serious attacks
by diseases and insects. The application of exogenous volatile semiochemicals may
induce and enhance its resistance against insect or disease attacks; however,
little is known regarding the genes and molecular mechanisms related to induced
resistance.
RESULTS: We performed de novo sequencing and assembly of the L. gmelinii
transcriptome using a short read sequencing technology (Illumina). Chemical
defenses of L. gmelinii seedlings were induced with jasmonic acid (JA) or methyl 
jasmonate (MeJA) for 6 hours. Transcriptomes were compared between seedlings
induced by JA, MeJA and untreated controls using a tag-based digital gene
expression profiling system. In a single run, 25,977,782 short reads were
produced and 51,157 unigenes were obtained with a mean length of 517 nt. We
sequenced 3 digital gene expression libraries and generated between 3.5 and 5.9
million raw tags, and obtained 52,040 reliable reference genes after removing
redundancy. The expression of disease/insect-resistance genes (e.g.,
phenylalanine ammonialyase, coumarate 3-hydroxylase, lipoxygenase, allene oxide
synthase and allene oxide cyclase) was up-regulated. The expression profiles of
some abundant genes under different elicitor treatment were studied by using
real-time qRT-PCR.The results showed that the expression levels of
disease/insect-resistance genes in the seedling samples induced by JA and MeJA
were higher than those in the control group. The seedlings induced with MeJA
elicited the strongest increases in disease/insect-resistance genes.
CONCLUSIONS: Both JA and MeJA induced seedlings of L. gmelinii showed
significantly increased expression of disease/insect-resistance genes. MeJA
seemed to have a stronger induction effect than JA on expression of
disease/insect-resistance related genes. This study provides sequence resources
for L. gmelinii research and will help us to better understand the functions of
disease/insect-resistance genes and the molecular mechanisms of secondary
metabolisms in L. gmelinii.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-548 
PMCID: PMC3765852
PMID: 23941306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1093. PLoS One. 2013 Aug 5;8(8):e71564. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0071564. Print 2013.

Global transcriptome analysis of orange wheat blossom midge, Sitodiplosis
mosellana (Gehin) (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae) to identify candidate transcripts
regulating diapause.

Gong ZJ(1), Wu YQ, Miao J, Duan Y, Jiang YL, Li T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Plant Protection, Henan Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Key
Laboratory of Crop Pest Control of Henan Province, Key Laboratory of Crop
Integrated Pest Management of the Southern of North China, Ministry of
Agriculture of the People's Republic of China, Zhengzhou, China.

BACKGROUND: Many insects enter a developmental arrest (diapause) that allows them
to survive harsh seasonal conditions. Despite the well-established ecological
significance of diapause, the molecular basis of this crucial adaptation remains 
largely unresolved. Sitodiplosis mosellana (Gehin), the orange wheat blossom
midge (OWBM), causes serious damage to wheat throughout the northern hemisphere, 
and sporadic outbreaks occur in the world. Traits related to diapause appear to
be important factors contributing to their rapid spread and outbreak. To better
understand the diapause mechanisms of OWBM, we sequenced the transcriptome and
determined the gene expression profile of this species.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: In this study, we performed de novo transcriptome
analysis using short-read sequencing technology (Illumina) and gene expression
analysis with a tag-based digital gene expression (DGE) system. The sequencing
results generated 89,117 contigs, and 45,713 unigenes. These unigenes were
annotated by Blastx alignment against the NCBI non-redundant (nr), Clusters of
orthologous groups (COG), gene orthology (GO), and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of
Genes and Genomes (KEGG) databases. 20,802 unigenes (45.5% of the total) matched 
with protein in the NCBI nr database. Two digital gene expression (DGE) libraries
were constructed to determine differences in gene expression profiles during
diapause and non-diapause developmental stages. Genes related to diapause were
analyzed in detail and in addition, nine diapause-related genes were analyzed by 
real time PCR.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: The OWBM transcriptome greatly improves our genetic
understanding and provides a platform for functional genomics research of this
species. The DGE profiling data provides comprehensive information at the
transcriptional level that facilitates our understanding of the molecular
mechanisms of various physiological aspects including development and diapause
stages in OWBM. From this study it is evident that various genes coding metabolic
enzymes are crucial for diapause and metamorphosis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0071564 
PMCID: PMC3733836
PMID: 23940768  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1094. Clin Chem. 2013 Dec;59(12):1722-31. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2013.206359. Epub 2013 
Aug 12.

Multiplex picodroplet digital PCR to detect KRAS mutations in circulating DNA
from the plasma of colorectal cancer patients.

Taly V(1), Pekin D, Benhaim L, Kotsopoulos SK, Le Corre D, Li X, Atochin I, Link 
DR, Griffiths AD, Pallier K, Blons H, Bouché O, Landi B, Hutchison JB,
Laurent-Puig P.

Author information: 
(1)Université Paris Sorbonne Cité, INSERM UMR-S775, Centre Universitaire des
Saints-Pères, Paris, France;

Comment in
    Clin Chem. 2013 Dec;59(12):1691-3.

BACKGROUND: Multiplex digital PCR (dPCR) enables noninvasive and sensitive
detection of circulating tumor DNA with performance unachievable by current
molecular-detection approaches. Furthermore, picodroplet dPCR facilitates
simultaneous screening for multiple mutations from the same sample.
METHODS: We investigated the utility of multiplex dPCR to screen for the 7 most
common mutations in codons 12 and 13 of the KRAS (Kirsten rat sarcoma viral
oncogene homolog) oncogene from plasma samples of patients with metastatic
colorectal cancer. Fifty plasma samples were tested from patients for whom the
primary tumor biopsy tissue DNA had been characterized by quantitative PCR.
RESULTS: Tumor characterization revealed that 19 patient tumors had KRAS
mutations. Multiplex dPCR analysis of the plasma DNA prepared from these samples 
identified 14 samples that matched the mutation identified in the tumor, 1 sample
contained a different KRAS mutation, and 4 samples had no detectable mutation.
Among the tumor samples that were wild type for KRAS, 2 KRAS mutations were
identified in the corresponding plasma samples. Duplex dPCR (i.e., wild-type and 
single-mutation assay) was also used to analyze plasma samples from patients with
KRAS-mutated tumors and 5 samples expected to contain the BRAF (v-raf murine
sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B) V600E mutation. The results for the duplex
analysis matched those for the multiplex analysis for KRAS-mutated samples and,
owing to its higher sensitivity, enabled detection of 2 additional samples with
low levels of KRAS-mutated DNA. All 5 samples with BRAF mutations were detected.
CONCLUSIONS: This work demonstrates the clinical utility of multiplex dPCR to
screen for multiple mutations simultaneously with a sensitivity sufficient to
detect mutations in circulating DNA obtained by noninvasive blood collection.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2013.206359 
PMID: 23938455  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1095. PLoS One. 2013 Aug 6;8(8):e73068. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0073068. Print 2013.

Akonni TruTip(®) and Qiagen(®) methods for extraction of fetal circulating
DNA--evaluation by real-time and digital PCR.

Holmberg RC(1), Gindlesperger A, Stokes T, Lopez D, Hyman L, Freed M, Belgrader
P, Harvey J, Li Z.

Author information: 
(1)Akonni Biosystems, Inc, Frederick, Maryland, United States of America.
rholmberg@akonni.com

Due to the low percentage of fetal DNA present in maternal plasma (< 10%) during 
early gestation, efficient extraction processes are required for successful
downstream detection applications in non-invasive prenatal diagnostic testing. In
this study, two extraction methods using similar chemistries but different
workflows were compared for isolation efficiency and percent fetal DNA recovery. 
The Akonni Biosystems TruTip technology uses a binding matrix embedded in a
pipette tip; the Circulating Nucleic Acids Kit from Qiagen employs a spin column 
approach. The TruTip method adds an extra step to decrease the recovery of DNA
fragments larger than 600 bp from the sample to yield an overall higher
percentage of smaller molecular weight DNA, effectively enriching for fetal DNA. 
In this evaluation, three separate extraction comparison studies were
performed--a dilution series of fragmented DNA in plasma, a set of clinical
maternal samples, and a blood collection tube time point study of maternal
samples. Both extraction methods were found to efficiently extract small fragment
DNA from large volumes of plasma. In the amended samples, the TruTip extraction
method was ~15% less efficient with overall DNA recovery, but yielded an 87%
increase in % fetal DNA relative to the Qiagen method. The average percent
increase of fetal DNA of TruTip extracted samples compared to the Qiagen method
was 55% for all sets of blinded clinical samples. A study comparing extraction
efficiencies from whole blood samples incubated up to 48 hours prior to
processing into plasma resulted in more consistent % fetal DNA recoveries using
TruTip. The extracted products were tested on two detection platforms,
quantitative real-time PCR and droplet digital PCR, and yielded similar results
for both extraction methods.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0073068 
PMCID: PMC3735556
PMID: 23936545  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1096. Nucleic Acids Res. 2013 Oct;41(18):e175. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkt684. Epub 2013 Aug
9.

Universal digital high-resolution melt: a novel approach to broad-based profiling
of heterogeneous biological samples.

Fraley SI(1), Hardick J, Masek BJ, Athamanolap P, Rothman RE, Gaydos CA, Carroll 
KC, Wakefield T, Wang TH, Yang S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
MD 21218, USA, Department of Emergency Medicine, The Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, MD 21218, USA, Division of Infectious Disease, Department of Medicine,
The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 21218, USA, Division of Medical
Microbiology, Department of Pathology, The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
MD 21218, USA, The Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, MD 21287, USA and
Department of Mechanical Engineering, The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD
21218, USA.

Erratum in
    Nucleic Acids Res. 2016 Jan 8;44(1):508. Jo Masek, Billie [Corrected to Masek,
Billie J].

Comprehensive profiling of nucleic acids in genetically heterogeneous samples is 
important for clinical and basic research applications. Universal digital
high-resolution melt (U-dHRM) is a new approach to broad-based PCR diagnostics
and profiling technologies that can overcome issues of poor sensitivity due to
contaminating nucleic acids and poor specificity due to primer or probe
hybridization inaccuracies for single nucleotide variations. The U-dHRM approach 
uses broad-based primers or ligated adapter sequences to universally amplify all 
nucleic acid molecules in a heterogeneous sample, which have been partitioned, as
in digital PCR. Extensive assay optimization enables direct sequence
identification by algorithm-based matching of melt curve shape and Tm to a
database of known sequence-specific melt curves. We show that single-molecule
detection and single nucleotide sensitivity is possible. The feasibility and
utility of U-dHRM is demonstrated through detection of bacteria associated with
polymicrobial blood infection and microRNAs (miRNAs) associated with host
response to infection. U-dHRM using broad-based 16S rRNA gene primers
demonstrates universal single cell detection of bacterial pathogens, even in the 
presence of larger amounts of contaminating bacteria; U-dHRM using universally
adapted Lethal-7 miRNAs in a heterogeneous mixture showcases the single copy
sensitivity and single nucleotide specificity of this approach.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkt684 
PMCID: PMC3794612
PMID: 23935121  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1097. Antiviral Res. 2013 Nov;100(2):420-8. doi: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2013.07.017. Epub 
2013 Aug 6.

Differential gene expression in HIV-infected individuals following ART.

Massanella M(1), Singhania A, Beliakova-Bethell N, Pier R, Lada SM, White CH,
Pérez-Santiago J, Blanco J, Richman DD, Little SJ, Woelk CH.

Author information: 
(1)Fundació irsiCaixa-HIVACAT, Institut de Recerca en Ciències de la Salut
Germans Trias i Pujol (IGTP), Hospital Germans Trias, Universitat Autònoma de
Barcelona, 08916 Badalona, Spain; Veterans Affairs San Diego Healthcare System,
San Diego, CA 92161, USA; Department of Pathology, University of California San
Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA.

Previous studies of the effect of ART on gene expression in HIV-infected
individuals have identified small numbers of modulated genes. Since these studies
were underpowered or cross-sectional in design, a paired analysis of peripheral
blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), isolated before and after ART, from a robust
number of HIV-infected patients (N=32) was performed. Gene expression was assayed
by microarray and 4157 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified
following ART using multivariate permutation tests. Pathways and gene ontology
(GO) terms over-represented for DEGs reflected the transition from a period of
active virus replication before ART to one of viral suppression (e.g., repression
of JAK-STAT signaling) and possible prolonged drug exposure (e.g., oxidative
phosphorylation pathway) following ART. CMYC was the DEG whose product made the
greatest number of interactions at the protein level in protein interaction
networks (PINs), which has implications for the increased incidence of Hodgkin's 
lymphoma (HL) in HIV-infected patients. The differential expression of multiple
genes was confirmed by RT-qPCR including well-known drug metabolism genes (e.g., 
ALOX12 and CYP2S1). Targets not confirmed by RT-qPCR (i.e., GSTM2 and RPL5) were 
significantly confirmed by droplet digital (ddPCR), which may represent a
superior method when confirming DEGs with low fold changes. In conclusion, a
paired design revealed that the number of genes modulated following ART was an
order of magnitude higher than previously recognized.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2013.07.017 
PMCID: PMC3899918
PMID: 23933117  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1098. Biotechniques. 2013 Aug;55(2):61-7. doi: 10.2144/000114063.

Simultaneous digital quantification and fluorescence-based size characterization 
of massively parallel sequencing libraries.

Laurie MT(1), Bertout JA, Taylor SD, Burton JN, Shendure JA, Bielas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Translational Research Program, Public Health Sciences Division, Fred
Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA, USA.

Due to the high cost of failed runs and suboptimal data yields, quantification
and determination of fragment size range are crucial steps in the library
preparation process for massively parallel sequencing (or next-generation
sequencing). Current library quality control methods commonly involve
quantification using real-time quantitative PCR and size determination using gel 
or capillary electrophoresis. These methods are laborious and subject to a number
of significant limitations that can make library calibration unreliable. Herein, 
we propose and test an alternative method for quality control of sequencing
libraries using droplet digital PCR (ddPCR). By exploiting a correlation we have 
discovered between droplet fluorescence and amplicon size, we achieve the joint
quantification and size determination of target DNA with a single ddPCR assay. We
demonstrate the accuracy and precision of applying this method to the preparation
of sequencing libraries.

DOI: 10.2144/000114063 
PMCID: PMC4018218
PMID: 23931593  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1099. Lung Cancer. 2013 Oct;82(1):38-43. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2013.07.011. Epub 2013 
Aug 5.

EGFR mutation analysis in sputum of lung cancer patients: a multitechnique study.

Hubers AJ(1), Heideman DA, Yatabe Y, Wood MD, Tull J, Tarón M, Molina MA, Mayo C,
Bertran-Alamillo J, Herder GJ, Koning R, Sie D, Ylstra B, Meijer GA, Snijders PJ,
Witte BI, Postmus PE, Smit EF, Thunnissen E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations have been
identified in lung adenocarcinomas and are associated with high response chance
to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors. EGFR mutations can be detected in tumour
tissue, cytology specimens and blood from lung cancer patients. Thus far, EGFR
mutation analysis has not been systematically demonstrated for sputum samples.
The aim of the present study was to determine whether EGFR mutation analysis is
attainable on sputum samples, employing different assays in a multicenter study.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Sputum DNA from 10 lung cancer patients with confirmed
EGFR mutation in their tumour tissue, 10 lung cancer patients without evidence of
an EGFR mutation, and 10 patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
(COPD) was used for mutation analysis by Cycleave PCR, COLD-PCR, PangaeaBiotech
SL Technology (PST), and High Resolution Melting, respectively. Targeted
resequencing (TruSeq Amplicon Cancer Panel) and droplet digital PCR were
additionally performed on the 10 samples with EGFR mutation.
RESULTS: Dependent on the assay, EGFR mutations could be detected in 30-50% of
the sputum samples of patients with EGFR mutations. The different techniques
revealed consistent results, with slightly higher sensitivity for PST. Neither
the lung cancer patients without EGFR mutation nor the COPD controls tested
positive for EGFR mutations in their sputum samples, indicating high clinical
specificity of all assays.
CONCLUSION: EGFR mutations can be detected in sputum samples from patients with
EGFR-mutated non-small cell lung cancer, which may replace biopsy procedure for
some patients.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2013.07.011 
PMID: 23927883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1100. Biomaterials. 2013 Nov;34(33):8269-78. doi: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2013.07.072.
Epub 2013 Aug 4.

Nanoparticle-mediated delivery of TGF-β1 miRNA plasmid for preventing flexor
tendon adhesion formation.

Zhou Y(1), Zhang L, Zhao W, Wu Y, Zhu C, Yang Y.

Author information: 
(1)Hand Surgery Research Center, Department of Hand Surgery, Affiliated Hospital 
of Nantong University, Nantong 226001, PR China.

Treatment of the disrupted digital flexor tendon is troublesome because of the
lack of sufficient healing capacity and the formation of adhesions. Sustained
gene delivery may be a promising approach of modulating gene expression in
enhancing tendon healing and decreasing adhesions. In this study, a
microRNA-based RNAi plasmid was used to specifically silence the expression of
TGF-β1 gene associated with scar and adhesion formation in the flexor tendons.
The miRNA plasmids were complexed with polylactic-co-glycolic acid (PLGA)
nanoparticles to form nanoparticle/TGF-β1 miRNA plasmid (nanoparticle/plasmid)
complexes. In vitro and in vivo transfection efficiencies experiments against
tenocytes revealed that nanoparticle/plasmid complexes have significantly
superior transfection efficiency over the lipofectamine/plasmid complexes. The
gene and protein expression associated with adhesion of tendon treated with
nanoparticle/plasmid complexes were evaluated by real-time PCR and
immunoblotting. The grading of adhesions for tendons treated with
nanoparticle/plasmid complexes was less severe than that treated with the
nanoparticle/mock plasmid complexes. However, the ultimate strength of repaired
tendons treated with nanoparticle/plasmid complexes was significantly lower than 
that of tendons treated with the nanoparticle/mock plasmid complexes.

© 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2013.07.072 
PMID: 23924908  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1101. Dev Comp Immunol. 2013 Dec;41(4):523-33. doi: 10.1016/j.dci.2013.07.020. Epub
2013 Aug 3.

RNA-Seq analysis reveals genes associated with resistance to Taura syndrome virus
(TSV) in the Pacific white shrimp Litopenaeus vannamei.

Sookruksawong S(1), Sun F, Liu Z, Tassanakajon A.

Author information: 
(1)Center of Excellence for Molecular Biology and Genomics of Shrimp, Department 
of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, Chulalongkorn University, 254 Phayathai
Road, Bangkok 10330, Thailand.

Outbreak of Taura syndrome virus (TSV) is one of the major pathogens of the
Pacific white shrimp Litopenaeus vannamei. Although selective breeding for
improvement of TSV resistance in L. vannamei has been successfully developed and 
has led to a great benefit to the shrimp farming industry worldwide. The
molecular mechanisms underlying the viral resistance in shrimp remain largely
unknown. In the present study, we conducted the first transcriptomic profiling of
host responses in hemolymph and hemocytes in order to identify the differentially
expressed genes associated with resistance to TSV in L. vannamei. High-throughput
RNA-Seq was employed, obtaining 193.6 and 171.2 million high-quality Illumina
reads from TSV-resistant and susceptible L. vannamei lines respectively. A total 
of 61,937 contigs were generated with an average length of 546.26 bp.
BLASTX-based gene annotation (E-value < 10(-5)) allowed the identification of
12,398 unique proteins against the NCBI non-redundant NR database. In addition,
comparison of digital gene expression between resistant and susceptible strains
revealed 1374 significantly differentially expressed contigs (representing 697
unigenes). Gene pathway analysis of the differentially expressed gene set
highlighted several putative genes involved in the immune response activity
including (1) pathogen/antigen recognition including immune regulator, adhesive
protein and signal transducer; (2) coagulation; (3) proPO pathway cascade; (4)
antioxidation; and (5) protease. The expression patterns of 22 differentially
expressed genes involving immune response were validated by quantitative
real-time RT-PCR (average correlation coefficients 0.94, p-value < 0.001). Our
results provide valuable information on gene functions associated with resistance
to TSV in L. vannamei.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dci.2013.07.020 
PMID: 23921257  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1102. Am J Pathol. 2013 Oct;183(4):1075-83. doi: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2013.07.002. Epub
2013 Aug 3.

The emerging role of the molecular diagnostics laboratory in breast cancer
personalized medicine.

De Abreu FB(1), Wells WA, Tsongalis GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Hanover, New 
Hampshire; Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center and the Norris Cotton Cancer
Center, Lebanon, New Hampshire.

Breast cancer is a complex disease characterized by many morphological, clinical,
and molecular features. For many years, breast cancer has been classified
according to traditional parameters, such as histological type, grade, tumor
size, lymph node involvement and vascular invasion, and biomarkers (eg, estrogen 
receptor, progesterone receptor, and epidermal growth factor receptor 2), which
are used in patient management. With emerging imaging techniques (ie, digital
mammography, tomosynthesis, ultrasonography, magnetic resonance imaging, nuclear 
medicine, and genomic techniques, such as real-time RT-PCR and microarrays),
breast cancer diagnostics is going through a significant evolution. Imaging
technologies have improved breast cancer diagnosis, survival, and treatment by
early detection of primary or metastatic lesions, differentiating benign from
malignant lesions and promoting intraoperative surgical guidance and
postoperative specimen evaluation. Genomic and transcriptomic technologies make
the analysis of gene expression signatures and mutation status possible so that
tumors may be classified more accurately with respect to diagnosis and prognosis.
The -omic era has also made possible the identification of new biomarkers
involved in breast cancer development, survival, and invasion that can be
gradually incorporated into clinical testing. These advances in both imaging and 
genomics contribute to more personalized and predictive patient management. We
review the progress made in breast cancer diagnosis and management using these
new tools.

Copyright © 2013 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2013.07.002 
PMID: 23920325  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1103. Aging Cell. 2014 Feb;13(1):29-38. doi: 10.1111/acel.12146. Epub 2013 Sep 11.

Targeted enrichment and high-resolution digital profiling of mitochondrial DNA
deletions in human brain.

Taylor SD(1), Ericson NG, Burton JN, Prolla TA, Silber JR, Shendure J, Bielas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Translational Research Program, Public Health Sciences Division, Fred
Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 1100 Fairview Ave, Seattle, WA, 98109, USA.

Comment in
    Aging Cell. 2014 Aug;13(4):579-82.

Due largely to the inability to accurately quantify and characterize de novo
deletion events, the mechanisms underpinning the pathogenic expansion of mtDNA
deletions in aging and neuromuscular disorders remain poorly understood. Here, we
outline and validate a new tool termed 'Digital Deletion Detection' (3D) that
allows for high-resolution analysis of rare deletions occurring at frequencies as
low as 1 × 10(-8) . 3D is a three-step process that includes targeted enrichment 
for deletion-bearing molecules, single-molecule partitioning of genomes into
thousands of droplets for direct quantification via droplet digital PCR, and
breakpoint characterization using massively parallel sequencing. Using 3D, we
interrogated over 8 billion mitochondrial genomes to analyze the age-related
dynamics of mtDNA deletions in human brain tissue. We demonstrate that the total 
deletion load increases with age, while the total number and diversity of unique 
deletions remain constant. Our data provide support for the hypothesis that
expansion of pre-existing mutations is the primary factor contributing to
age-related accumulation of mtDNA deletions.

© 2013 The Authors. Aging Cell published by the Anatomical Society and John Wiley
& Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/acel.12146 
PMCID: PMC4068027
PMID: 23911137  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1104. Chemosphere. 2014 Feb;96:33-8. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2013.06.089. Epub 2013 
Jul 27.

The adverse effects of phoxim exposure in the midgut of silkworm, Bombyx mori.

Gu Z(1), Zhou Y, Xie Y, Li F, Ma L, Sun S, Wu Y, Wang B, Wang J, Hong F, Shen W, 
Li B.

Author information: 
(1)School of Basic Medicine and Biological Sciences, Soochow University, Suzhou, 
Jiangsu 215123, PR China.

The silkworm is an important economic insect. Poisoning of silkworms by
organophosphate pesticides causes tremendous loss to the sericulture. In this
study, Solexa sequencing technology was performed to profile the gene expression 
changes in the midgut of silkworms in response to 24h of phoxim exposure and the 
impact on detoxification, apoptosis and immune defense were addressed. The
results showed that 254 genes displayed at least 2.0-fold changes in expression
levels, with 148 genes up-regulated and 106 genes down-regulated. Cytochrome P450
played an important role in detoxification. Histopathology examination and
transmission electron microscope revealed swollen mitochondria and disappearance 
of the cristae of mitochondria, which are the important features in insect
apoptotic cells. Cytochrome C release from mitochondria into the cytoplasm was
confirmed. In addition, the Toll and immune deficiency (IMD) signal pathways were
all inhibited using qRT-PCR. Our results could help better understand the impact 
of phoxim exposure on silkworm.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2013.06.089 
PMID: 23899924  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1105. Mol Ecol Resour. 2014 Jan;14(1):139-49. doi: 10.1111/1755-0998.12148. Epub 2013
Jul 25.

Analysis of the black-chinned tilapia Sarotherodon melanotheron heudelotii
reproducing under a wide range of salinities: from RNA-seq to candidate genes.

Avarre JC(1), Dugué R, Alonso P, Diombokho A, Joffrois C, Faivre N, Cochet C,
Durand JD.

Author information: 
(1)Institut des Sciences de l'Evolution de Montpellier, UMR 226 IRD-CNRS-UM2,
BP5095, Montpellier Cedex 05, 34196, France.

The black-chinned tilapia Sarotherodon melanotheron heudelotii is an ecologically
appealing model as it shows exceptional adaptive capacities, especially with
regard to salinity. In spite of this, this species is devoid of genomic
resources, which impedes the understanding of such remarkable features. De novo
assembly of transcript sequences produced by next-generation sequencing
technologies offers a rapid approach to obtain expressed gene sequences for
non-model organisms. It also facilitates the development of quantitative
real-time PCR (qPCR) assays for analysing gene expression under different
environmental conditions. Nevertheless, obtaining accurate and reliable qPCR
results from such data requires a number of validations prior to interpretation. 
The transcriptome of S. melanotheron was sequenced to discover transcripts
potentially involved in the plasticity of male reproduction in response to
salinity variations. A set of 54 candidate and reference genes was selected
through a digital gene expression (DGE) approach, and a de novo qPCR assay using 
these genes was validated for further detailed expression analyses. A
user-friendly web interface was created for easy handling of the sequence data.
This sequence collection represents a major transcriptomic resource for
S. melanotheron and will provide a useful tool for functional genomics and
genetics studies.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1755-0998.12148 
PMID: 23889972  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1106. Mol Ther Nucleic Acids. 2013 Jul 23;2:e109. doi: 10.1038/mtna.2013.28.

BEAMing and Droplet Digital PCR Analysis of Mutant IDH1 mRNA in Glioma Patient
Serum and Cerebrospinal Fluid Extracellular Vesicles.

Chen WW(1), Balaj L, Liau LM, Samuels ML, Kotsopoulos SK, Maguire CA, Loguidice
L, Soto H, Garrett M, Zhu LD, Sivaraman S, Chen C, Wong ET, Carter BS, Hochberg
FH, Breakefield XO, Skog J.

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, and Neuroscience
Program, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA [2] Department of
Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, and Neuroscience Program, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA [3] Program, Harvard-MIT Division of
Health, Science, and Technology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts,
USA.

Development of biofluid-based molecular diagnostic tests for cancer is an
important step towards tumor characterization and real-time monitoring in a
minimally invasive fashion. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are released from tumor 
cells into body fluids and can provide a powerful platform for tumor biomarkers
because they carry tumor proteins and nucleic acids. Detecting rare point
mutations in the background of wild-type sequences in biofluids such as blood and
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) remains a major challenge. Techniques such as BEAMing
(beads, emulsion, amplification, magnetics) PCR and droplet digital PCR (ddPCR)
are substantially more sensitive than many other assays for mutant sequence
detection. Here, we describe a novel approach that combines biofluid EV RNA and
BEAMing RT-PCR (EV-BEAMing), as well droplet digital PCR to interrogate mutations
from glioma tumors. EVs from CSF of patients with glioma were shown to contain
mutant IDH1 transcripts, and we were able to reliably detect and quantify mutant 
and wild-type IDH1 RNA transcripts in CSF of patients with gliomas. EV-BEAMing
and EV-ddPCR represent a valuable new strategy for cancer diagnostics, which can 
be applied to a variety of biofluids and neoplasms.Molecular Therapy-Nucleic
Acids (2013) 2, e109; doi:10.1038/mtna.2013.28; published online 23 July 2013.

DOI: 10.1038/mtna.2013.28 
PMCID: PMC3732870
PMID: 23881452 


1107. PLoS One. 2013 Jul 16;8(7):e69813. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0069813. Print 2013.

Improving precision of proximity ligation assay by amplified single molecule
detection.

Ke R(1), Nong RY, Fredriksson S, Landegren U, Nilsson M.

Author information: 
(1)Science for Life Laboratory, Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics,
Stockholm University, Solna, Sweden.

Proximity ligation assay (PLA) has been proven to be a robust protein detection
method. The technique is characterized by high sensitivity and specificity, but
the assay precision is probably limited by the PCR readout. To investigate this
potential limitation and to improve precision, we developed a digital proximity
ligation assay for protein measurement in fluids based on amplified single
molecule detection. The assay showed significant improvements in precision, and
thereby also detection sensitivity, over the conventional real-time PCR readout.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0069813 
PMCID: PMC3713053
PMID: 23874999  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1108. PLoS One. 2013 Jul 10;8(7):e69168. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0069168. Print 2013.

De novo assembly and characterization of the Barnyardgrass (Echinochloa
crus-galli) transcriptome using next-generation pyrosequencing.

Yang X(1), Yu XY, Li YF.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Plant Protection, Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural Sciences,
Nanjing, China.

BACKGROUND: Barnyardgrass (Echinochloa crus-galli) is an important weed that is a
menace to rice cultivation and production. Rapid evolution of herbicide
resistance in this weed makes it one of the most difficult to manage using
herbicides. Since genome-wide sequence data for barnyardgrass is limited, we
sequenced the transcriptomes of susceptible and resistant barnyardgrass biotypes 
using the 454 GS-FLX platform.
RESULTS: 454 pyrosequencing generated 371,281 raw reads with an average length of
341.8 bp, which made a total length of 126.89 Mb (SRX160526). De novo assembly
produced 10,142 contigs (∼5.92 Mb) with an average length of 583 bp and 68,940
singletons (∼22.13 Mb) with an average length of 321 bp. About 244,653 GO term
assignments to the biological process, cellular component and molecular function 
categories were obtained. A total of 6,092 contigs and singletons with 2,515
enzyme commission numbers were assigned to 151 predicted KEGG metabolic pathways.
Digital abundance analysis using Illumina sequencing identified 78,124
transcripts among susceptible, resistant, herbicide-treated susceptible and
herbicide-treated resistant barnyardgrass biotypes. From these analyses, eight
herbicide target-site gene groups and four non-target-site gene groups were
identified in the resistant biotype. These could be potential candidate genes
involved in the herbicide resistance of barnyardgrass and could be used for
further functional genomics research. C4 photosynthesis genes including RbcS,
RbcL, NADP-me and MDH with complete CDS were identified using PCR and RACE
technology.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first large-scale transcriptome sequencing of E.
crus-galli performed using the 454 GS-FLX platform. Potential candidate genes
involved in the evolution of herbicide resistance were identified from the
assembled sequences. This transcriptome data may serve as a reference for further
gene expression and functional genomics studies, and will facilitate the study of
herbicide resistance at the molecular level in this species as well as other
weeds.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0069168 
PMCID: PMC3707877
PMID: 23874903  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1109. PLoS One. 2013 Jul 10;8(7):e68535. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0068535. Print 2013.

A DNA 'barcode blitz': rapid digitization and sequencing of a natural history
collection.

Hebert PD(1), Dewaard JR, Zakharov EV, Prosser SW, Sones JE, McKeown JT, Mantle
B, La Salle J.

Author information: 
(1)Biodiversity Institute of Ontario, University of Guelph, Guelph, ON, Canada.
phebert@uoguelph.ca

DNA barcoding protocols require the linkage of each sequence record to a voucher 
specimen that has, whenever possible, been authoritatively identified. Natural
history collections would seem an ideal resource for barcode library
construction, but they have never seen large-scale analysis because of concerns
linked to DNA degradation. The present study examines the strength of this
barrier, carrying out a comprehensive analysis of moth and butterfly
(Lepidoptera) species in the Australian National Insect Collection. Protocols
were developed that enabled tissue samples, specimen data, and images to be
assembled rapidly. Using these methods, a five-person team processed 41,650
specimens representing 12,699 species in 14 weeks. Subsequent molecular analysis 
took about six months, reflecting the need for multiple rounds of PCR as sequence
recovery was impacted by age, body size, and collection protocols. Despite these 
variables and the fact that specimens averaged 30.4 years old, barcode records
were obtained from 86% of the species. In fact, one or more barcode compliant
sequences (>487 bp) were recovered from virtually all species represented by five
or more individuals, even when the youngest was 50 years old. By assembling
specimen images, distributional data, and DNA barcode sequences on a
web-accessible informatics platform, this study has greatly advanced
accessibility to information on thousands of species. Moreover, much of the
specimen data became publically accessible within days of its acquisition, while 
most sequence results saw release within three months. As such, this study
reveals the speed with which DNA barcode workflows can mobilize biodiversity
data, often providing the first web-accessible information for a species. These
results further suggest that existing collections can enable the rapid
development of a comprehensive DNA barcode library for the most diverse
compartment of terrestrial biodiversity - insects.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0068535 
PMCID: PMC3707885
PMID: 23874660  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1110. Nucleic Acids Res. 2013 Sep;41(16):e159. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkt613. Epub 2013 Jul
19.

Single molecule quantitation and sequencing of rare translocations using
microfluidic nested digital PCR.

Shuga J(1), Zeng Y, Novak R, Lan Q, Tang X, Rothman N, Vermeulen R, Li L, Hubbard
A, Zhang L, Mathies RA, Smith MT.

Author information: 
(1)School of Public Health, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA,
Department of Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA,
Department of Chemistry, University of Kansas, Lawrence, KS 66045, USA, UC San
Francisco/UC Berkeley Graduate Program in Bioengineering, University of
California, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA, Division of Cancer Epidemiology and
Genetics, National Cancer Institute, NIH, Department of Health and Human
Services, Bethesda, MD 20852, USA, Guangdong Poison Control Center, Guangzhou
510300, China and Environmental Epidemiology Division, Institute for Risk
Assessment Sciences, Utrecht University, Utrecht, NL-3508, The Netherlands.

Cancers are heterogeneous and genetically unstable. New methods are needed that
provide the sensitivity and specificity to query single cells at the genetic loci
that drive cancer progression, thereby enabling researchers to study the
progression of individual tumors. Here, we report the development and application
of a bead-based hemi-nested microfluidic droplet digital PCR (dPCR) technology to
achieve 'quantitative' measurement and single-molecule sequencing of somatically 
acquired carcinogenic translocations at extremely low levels (<10(-6)) in healthy
subjects. We use this technique in our healthy study population to determine the 
overall concentration of the t(14;18) translocation, which is strongly associated
with follicular lymphoma. The nested dPCR approach improves the detection limit
to 1×10(-7) or lower while maintaining the analysis efficiency and specificity.
Further, the bead-based dPCR enabled us to isolate and quantify the relative
amounts of the various clonal forms of t(14;18) translocation in these subjects, 
and the single-molecule sensitivity and resolution of dPCR led to the discovery
of new clonal forms of t(14;18) that were otherwise masked by the conventional
quantitative PCR measurements. In this manner, we created a quantitative map for 
this carcinogenic mutation in this healthy population and identified the
positions on chromosomes 14 and 18 where the vast majority of these t(14;18)
events occur.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkt613 
PMCID: PMC3763562
PMID: 23873959  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1111. Gene. 2013 Nov 10;530(2):273-7. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.06.087. Epub 2013 Jul
17.

Impact of MMP-3 and TIMP-3 gene polymorphisms on prostate cancer susceptibility
in North Indian cohort.

Srivastava P(1), Kapoor R, Mittal RD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology and Renal Transplantation, Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate
Institute of Medical Sciences, Raebareli Road, Lucknow-226014, Uttar Pradesh,
India.

PURPOSE: Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) have been implicated in progression and
metastases of different tumors. The balance between the MMPs and their natural
inhibitors (tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases; TIMP) seem to be an
important factor related to its role. The purpose of this study was to evaluate
polymorphisms in the MMP-3 and TIMP-3 genes for their associations with prostate 
cancer (PCa) risk in North Indians.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Genotypes were determined by PCR-RFLP (Polymerase Chain
Reaction Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism) method in 150 PCa patients and
200 age matched controls of similar ethnicity.
RESULTS: We found significant association in the MMP-3(1171)5A/6A and TIMP-3
(1298) C/T polymorphism with PCa risk. Variant genotype (5A/5A) of
MMP-3(1171)5A/6A polymorphism had a high PCa risk (p=0.037, OR=3.52,
95%CI=1.08-11.5). Individuals with TIMP-3 (1298) CT genotype as well as T allele 
showed reduced risk of PCa (p<0.001; OR=0.31; 95%CI=0.18-0.52, and p=0.001;
OR=0.49; 95%CI=0.32-0.75). This effect was even more evident in case of T allele 
carrier (CT+TT) (p<0.001; OR=0.36; 95%CI=0.22-0.59). Overall no significant
association was observed statistically in MMP-3 and TIMP-3 with any of the
grading stages and smoking habits in PCa. Haplotype analysis of MMP-3 showed that
A-5A-A was associated with three folds (OR=3.06; 95%CI=1.71-5.47; p<0.001)
increased risk in PCa patients.
CONCLUSION: This is the first reported association between polymorphisms in the
MMP-3 and TIMP-3 gene and PCa risk and supports the hypothesis that the
protease/antiprotease balance has an important role. Due to the small sample size
further investigations need to be done to prove a statistical significant
correlation between the MMP/TIMP expression and clinicopathological parameters.

© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.06.087 
PMID: 23872201  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1112. Anal Chem. 2013 Aug 20;85(16):7851-8. doi: 10.1021/ac400729q. Epub 2013 Aug 5.

Single-pair fluorescence resonance energy transfer analysis of mRNA transcripts
for highly sensitive gene expression profiling in near real time.

Peng Z(1), Young B, Baird AE, Soper SA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana
70803, United States.

Expression analysis of mRNAs transcribed from certain genes can be used as
important sources of biomarkers for in vitro diagnostics. While the use of
reverse transcription quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) can provide excellent analytical
sensitivity for monitoring transcript numbers, more sensitive approaches for
expression analysis that can report results in near real-time are needed for many
critical applications. We report a novel assay that can provide exquisite
limits-of-quantitation and consists of reverse transcription (RT) followed by a
ligase detection reaction (LDR) with single-pair fluorescence resonance energy
transfer (spFRET) to provide digital readout through molecular counting. For this
assay, no PCR was employed, which enabled short assay turnaround times. To
facilitate implementation of the assay, a cyclic olefin copolymer (COC)
microchip, which was fabricated using hot embossing, was employed to carry out
the LDR in a continuous flow format with online single-molecule detection
following the LDR. As demonstrators of the assay's utility, MMP-7 mRNA was
expression profiled from several colorectal cancer cell lines. It was found that 
the RT-LDR/spFRET assay produced highly linear calibration plots even in the low 
copy number regime. Comparison to RT-qPCR indicated a better linearity over the
low copy number range investigated (10-10,000 copies) with an R(2) = 0.9995 for
RT-LDR/spFRET and R(2) = 0.98 for RT-qPCR. In addition, differentiating between
copy numbers of 10 and 50 could be performed with higher confidence using
RT-LDR/spFRET. To demonstrate the short assay turnaround times obtainable using
the RT-LDR/spFRET assay, a two thermal cycle LDR was carried out on amphiphysin
gene transcripts that can serve as important diagnostic markers for ischemic
stroke. The ability to supply diagnostic information on possible stroke events in
short turnaround times using RT-LDR/spFRET will enable clinicians to treat
patients effectively with appropriate time-sensitive therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1021/ac400729q 
PMCID: PMC3864661
PMID: 23869556  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1113. Genetika. 2013 Apr;49(4):531-7.

[Specialized software product for comparative analysis of multicomponent DNA
fingerprints].

[Article in Russian]

Skosyrev VS, Vasil'eva GV, Lomaeva MG, Malakhova LV, Antipova VN, Bezlepkin VG.

"GelAnalyzer" software, which is used to identify and correctly compare DNA
fingerprints consisting of a large number of discrete bands, has been developed
by the project to study the quantitative changes in DNA polymorphism patterns in 
animals and humans exposed to gamma radiation. The actual capabilities of this
program are much broader and include the possibility to analyze the images of any
multicomponent gels containing fragments of DNA, RNA, and proteins. This software
product runs on Windows. "GelAnalyzer" allows one to analyze gel images obtained 
by a scanner, camera, or digital camera and ensures the visual control of the
identification and comparative analysis of bands; it also makes it possible to
take into account the bands that are poorly identified automatically and exclude 
the artifacts (incidental marks) on images. The operation of "GelAnalyzer"
software is based on the determination of the values of normalized coordinates of
bands with allowance for the relative electrophoretic mobility (Rf) of PCR
products and comparison of their spectra (set of bands in gel lanes) to reveal
the similarities or differences in their components with subsequent statistical
data processing and display the results of the analysis.


PMID: 23866630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1114. Biol Reprod. 2013 Aug 15;89(2):32. doi: 10.1095/biolreprod.112.103648. Print 2013
Aug.

Identification of Ube2b as a novel target of androgen receptor in mouse sertoli
cells.

Mou L(1), Zhang Q, Wang Y, Zhang Q, Sun L, Li C, Huang W, Yuan Y, Duan Y, Diao R,
Jiang Z, Ye J, Cai Z, Gui Y.

Author information: 
(1)Guangdong and Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Male Reproductive Medicine and
Genetics, Institute of Urology, Peking University Shenzhen Hospital, Shenzhen
Peking University-Hong Kong University of Science & Technology Medical Center,
Shenzhen, China.

Many genes are regulated by androgen and its receptor (AR), but the direct target
genes of AR, especially those involved in spermatogenesis and male infertility,
remain unclear. Here, we identified ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2B (Ube2b) as a
critical target gene of AR. The expression of UBE2B was decreased in the testes
of Sertoli cell AR knockout (S-AR(-/y)) mice analyzed by quantitative RT-PCR
(qRT-PCR) and immunofluorescence. The upregulation of Ube2b gene by testosterone 
was further demonstrated by Western blot and qRT-PCR in TM4 cells, a mouse
Sertoli cell line. Moreover, luciferase assay, electrophoretic mobility shift
assay, and chromatin immunoprecipitation assay validated that the ligand-bound AR
activated Ube2b transcription via direct binding to the androgen-responsive
element of the Ube2b promoter. In vitro analyses showed that testosterone
increased UBE2B expression and activated H2A ubiquitylation, while downregulation
of UBE2B blocked the testosterone-induced H2A ubiquitylation. The ubiquitylation 
of H2A was markedly decreased in the testes of S-AR(-/y) mice by
immunohistochemistry. Digital gene expression analysis showed that 113 genes were
significantly downregulated and 71 were upregulated by UBE2B in TM4 cells. These 
results suggest that Ube2b, as a direct AR transcriptional target in Sertoli
cells, mediates the function of AR in spermatogenesis by promoting H2A
ubiquitylation.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.112.103648 
PMID: 23863405  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1115. PLoS One. 2013 Jul 5;8(7):e66752. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0066752. Print 2013.

Enpp1: a potential facilitator of breast cancer bone metastasis.

Lau WM(1), Doucet M, Stadel R, Huang D, Weber KL, Kominsky SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

Bone is the most common site of breast cancer metastasis and once established, it
is frequently incurable. Critical to our ability to prevent and treat bone
metastasis is the identification of the key factors mediating its establishment
and understanding their biological function. To address this issue we previously 
carried out an in vivo selection process to isolate murine mammary tumor sublines
possessing an enhanced ability to colonize the bone. A comparison of gene
expression between parental cells and sublines by genome-wide cDNA microarray
analysis revealed several potential mediators of bone metastasis, including the
pyrophosphate-generating ectoenzyme Enpp1. By qRT-PCR and Western analysis we
found that expression of Enpp1 was elevated in human breast cancer cell lines
known to produce bone metastasis in animal models compared to non-metastatic and 
normal mammary epithelial cell lines. Further, in clinical specimens, levels of
Enpp1 were significantly elevated in human primary breast tumors relative to
normal mammary epithelium, with highest levels observed in breast-bone metastasis
as determined by qRT-PCR and immunohistochemical analysis. To examine the
potential role of Enpp1 in the development of bone metastasis, Enpp1 expression
was stably increased in the breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-231 and the ability to
colonize the bone following intracardiac and direct intratibial injection of
athymic nude mice was determined. By both routes of administration, increased
expression of Enpp1 enhanced the ability of MDA-MB-231 cells to form tumors in
the bone relative to cells expressing vector alone, as determined by digital
radiography and histological analysis. Taken together, these data suggest a
potential role for Enpp1 in the development of breast cancer bone metastasis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0066752 
PMCID: PMC3702501
PMID: 23861746  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1116. PLoS One. 2013 Jun 26;8(6):e67150. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0067150. Print 2013.

Strategies for Wheat Stripe Rust Pathogenicity Identified by Transcriptome
Sequencing.

Garnica DP(1), Upadhyaya NM, Dodds PN, Rathjen JP.

Author information: 
(1)Research School of Biology, Australian National University, Canberra,
Australian Capital Territory, Australia.

Stripe rust caused by the fungus Puccinia striiformis f.sp. tritici (Pst) is a
major constraint to wheat production worldwide. The molecular events that
underlie Pst pathogenicity are largely unknown. Like all rusts, Pst creates a
specialized cellular structure within host cells called the haustorium to obtain 
nutrients from wheat, and to secrete pathogenicity factors called effector
proteins. We purified Pst haustoria and used next-generation sequencing platforms
to assemble the haustorial transcriptome as well as the transcriptome of
germinated spores. 12,282 transcripts were assembled from 454-pyrosequencing data
and used as reference for digital gene expression analysis to compare the
germinated uredinospores and haustoria transcriptomes based on Illumina RNAseq
data. More than 400 genes encoding secreted proteins which constitute candidate
effectors were identified from the haustorial transcriptome, with two thirds of
these up-regulated in this tissue compared to germinated spores. RT-PCR analysis 
confirmed the expression patterns of 94 effector candidates. The analysis also
revealed that spores rely mainly on stored energy reserves for growth and
development, while haustoria take up host nutrients for massive energy production
for biosynthetic pathways and the ultimate production of spores. Together, these 
studies substantially increase our knowledge of potential Pst effectors and
provide new insights into the pathogenic strategies of this important organism.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0067150 
PMCID: PMC3694141
PMID: 23840606 


1117. Anal Chim Acta. 2013 Jul 17;787:24-35. doi: 10.1016/j.aca.2013.04.064. Epub 2013 
May 14.

Analytical detection techniques for droplet microfluidics--a review.

Zhu Y(1), Fang Q.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Microanalytical Systems, Department of Chemistry, Zhejiang
University, Hangzhou, China.

In the last decade, droplet-based microfluidics has undergone rapid progress in
the fields of single-cell analysis, digital PCR, protein crystallization and high
throughput screening. It has been proved to be a promising platform for
performing chemical and biological experiments with ultra-small volumes
(picoliter to nanoliter) and ultra-high throughput. The ability to analyze the
content in droplet qualitatively and quantitatively is playing an increasing role
in the development and application of droplet-based microfluidic systems. In this
review, we summarized the analytical detection techniques used in droplet systems
and discussed the advantage and disadvantage of each technique through its
application. The analytical techniques mentioned in this paper include
bright-field microscopy, fluorescence microscopy, laser induced fluorescence,
Raman spectroscopy, electrochemistry, capillary electrophoresis, mass
spectrometry, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, absorption detection,
chemiluminescence, and sample pretreatment techniques. The importance of
analytical detection techniques in enabling new applications is highlighted. We
also discuss the future development direction of analytical detection techniques 
for droplet-based microfluidic systems.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aca.2013.04.064 
PMID: 23830418  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1118. PLoS One. 2013 Jun 25;8(6):e67031. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0067031. Print 2013.

A robust method to analyze copy number alterations of less than 100 kb in single 
cells using oligonucleotide array CGH.

Möhlendick B(1), Bartenhagen C, Behrens B, Honisch E, Raba K, Knoefel WT,
Stoecklein NH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery (A), Heinrich-Heine University and University Hospital
Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany. birte.moehlendick@uni-duesseldorf.de

Comprehensive genome wide analyses of single cells became increasingly important 
in cancer research, but remain to be a technically challenging task. Here, we
provide a protocol for array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) of single
cells. The protocol is based on an established adapter-linker PCR (WGAM) and
allowed us to detect copy number alterations as small as 56 kb in single cells.
In addition we report on factors influencing the success of single cell aCGH
downstream of the amplification method, including the characteristics of the
reference DNA, the labeling technique, the amount of input DNA, reamplification, 
the aCGH resolution, and data analysis. In comparison with two other commercially
available non-linear single cell amplification methods, WGAM showed a very good
performance in aCGH experiments. Finally, we demonstrate that cancer cells that
were processed and identified by the CellSearch® System and that were
subsequently isolated from the CellSearch® cartridge as single cells by
fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS) could be successfully analyzed using
our WGAM-aCGH protocol. We believe that even in the era of next-generation
sequencing, our single cell aCGH protocol will be a useful and (cost-) effective 
approach to study copy number alterations in single cells at resolution
comparable to those reported currently for single cell digital karyotyping based 
on next generation sequencing data.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0067031 
PMCID: PMC3692546
PMID: 23825608  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1119. PLoS One. 2013 Jun 18;8(6):e65552. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0065552. Print 2013.

Characterization of Pythium Transcriptome and Gene Expression Analysis at
Different Stages of Fermentation.

Zhu Y(1), Zhou P, Hu J, Zhang R, Ren L, Li M, Ning F, Chen W, Yu L.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Resource Biology and Biotechnology, Department of Biotechnology, 
College of Life Science and Technology, Huazhong University of Science and
Technology, Wuhan, China ; Key Laboratory of Molecular Biophysics Ministry of
Education, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China ; Wuhan
Institute of Biotechnology, Wuhan, China.

BACKGROUND: The Pythium splendens is a potentially useful organism for the
synthesis of large amounts of eicosapentaenoic acid. Peak biomass and lipid
accumulation do not occur at the same time and growth temperature has an effect
on the fatty acid composition. Little is known about the pathway or the genes
involved in growth, lipid synthesis or temperature resistance in P. splendens.
Analysis of the transcriptome and expression profile data for P.splendensRBB-5
were used to extend genetic information for this strain and to contribute to a
comprehensive understanding of the molecular mechanisms involved in specific
biological processes.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: This study used transcriptome assembly and gene
expression analysis with short-read sequencing technology combined with a
tag-based digital gene expression (DGE) system. Assembled sequences were
annotated with gene descriptions, such as gene ontology (GO), clusters of
orthologous group (COG) terms and KEGG orthology (KO) to generate 23,796
unigenes. In addition, we obtained a larger number of genes at different stages
of fermentation (48, 100 and 148 h). The genes related to growth characteristics 
and lipid biosynthesis were analyzed in detail. Some genes associated with lipid 
and fatty acid biosynthesis were selected to confirm the digital gene expression 
(DGE) results by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR).
CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: The transcriptome improves our genetic understanding of 
P.splendensRBB-5 greatly and makes a large number of gene sequences available for
further study. Notably, the transcriptome and DGE profiling data of
P.splendensRBB-5 provide a comprehensive insight into gene expression profiles at
different stages of fermentation and lay the foundation for the study of
optimizing lipid content and growth speed at the molecular level.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0065552 
PMCID: PMC3688826
PMID: 23824586 


1120. Anal Chem. 2013 Aug 6;85(15):7182-90. doi: 10.1021/ac400896j. Epub 2013 Jul 24.

High-throughput microfluidic single-cell digital polymerase chain reaction.

White AK(1), Heyries KA, Doolin C, Vaninsberghe M, Hansen CL.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for High Throughput Biology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
British Columbia, Canada.

Here we present an integrated microfluidic device for the high-throughput digital
polymerase chain reaction (dPCR) analysis of single cells. This device allows for
the parallel processing of single cells and executes all steps of analysis,
including cell capture, washing, lysis, reverse transcription, and dPCR analysis.
The cDNA from each single cell is distributed into a dedicated dPCR array
consisting of 1020 chambers, each having a volume of 25 pL, using
surface-tension-based sample partitioning. The high density of this dPCR format
(118,900 chambers/cm(2)) allows the analysis of 200 single cells per run, for a
total of 204,000 PCR reactions using a device footprint of 10 cm(2). Experiments 
using RNA dilutions show this device achieves shot-noise-limited performance in
quantifying single molecules, with a dynamic range of 10(4). We performed over
1200 single-cell measurements, demonstrating the use of this platform in the
absolute quantification of both high- and low-abundance mRNA transcripts, as well
as micro-RNAs that are not easily measured using alternative hybridization
methods. We further apply the specificity and sensitivity of single-cell dPCR to 
performing measurements of RNA editing events in single cells. High-throughput
dPCR provides a new tool in the arsenal of single-cell analysis methods, with a
unique combination of speed, precision, sensitivity, and specificity. We
anticipate this approach will enable new studies where high-performance
single-cell measurements are essential, including the analysis of transcriptional
noise, allelic imbalance, and RNA processing.

DOI: 10.1021/ac400896j 
PMID: 23819473  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1121. BMC Genomics. 2013 Jun 22;14:415. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-415.

Global transcriptome profiles of Camellia sinensis during cold acclimation.

Wang XC(1), Zhao QY, Ma CL, Zhang ZH, Cao HL, Kong YM, Yue C, Hao XY, Chen L, Ma 
JQ, Jin JQ, Li X, Yang YJ.

Author information: 
(1)Tea Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences; National
Center for Tea Improvement, Key Laboratory of Tea Plant Biology and Resources
Utilization, Ministry of Agriculture, Hangzhou 310008, China.

BACKGROUND: Tea is the most popular non-alcoholic health beverage in the world.
The tea plant (Camellia sinensis (L.) O. Kuntze) needs to undergo a cold
acclimation process to enhance its freezing tolerance in winter. Changes that
occur at the molecular level in response to low temperatures are poorly
understood in tea plants. To elucidate the molecular mechanisms of cold
acclimation, we employed RNA-Seq and digital gene expression (DGE) technologies
to the study of genome-wide expression profiles during cold acclimation in tea
plants.
RESULTS: Using the Illumina sequencing platform, we obtained approximately 57.35 
million RNA-Seq reads. These reads were assembled into 216,831 transcripts, with 
an average length of 356 bp and an N50 of 529 bp. In total, 1,770 differentially 
expressed transcripts were identified, of which 1,168 were up-regulated and 602
down-regulated. These include a group of cold sensor or signal transduction
genes, cold-responsive transcription factor genes, plasma membrane stabilization 
related genes, osmosensing-responsive genes, and detoxification enzyme genes. DGE
and quantitative RT-PCR analysis further confirmed the results from RNA-Seq
analysis. Pathway analysis indicated that the "carbohydrate metabolism pathway"
and the "calcium signaling pathway" might play a vital role in tea plants'
responses to cold stress.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study presents a global survey of transcriptome profiles of tea 
plants in response to low, non-freezing temperatures and yields insights into the
molecular mechanisms of tea plants during the cold acclimation process. It could 
also serve as a valuable resource for relevant research on cold-tolerance and
help to explore the cold-related genes in improving the understanding of
low-temperature tolerance and plant-environment interactions.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-415 
PMCID: PMC3701547
PMID: 23799877  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1122. PLoS One. 2013 Jun 14;8(6):e66630. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0066630. Print 2013.

Expressed prostate secretions in the study of human papillomavirus epidemiology
in the male.

Smelov V(1), Eklund C, Bzhalava D, Novikov A, Dillner J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
vitaly.smelov@ki.se

INTRODUCTION: Exploring different sampling sites and methods is of interest for
studies of the epidemiology of HPV infections in the male. Expressed prostate
secretions (EPS) are obtained during digital rectal examination (DRE), a daily
routine urological diagnostic procedure, following massage of the prostate.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Urethral swabs and EPS samples were obtained from a
consecutive sample of 752 men (mean age 32.4 years; median life-time sex partners
34) visiting urology outpatient clinics in St. Petersburg, Russia and tested for 
HPV DNA by general primer PCR, followed by genotyping using Luminex.
RESULTS: Overall, 47.9% (360/752) of men were HPV-positive, with 42.0% (316/752) 
being positive for high-risk (HR-) HPV and 12.6% (95/752) for multiple HPV types.
HPV-positivity in the EPS samples was 32.6% (27.7% HR-HPV) and in the urethral
samples 25.9% (24.5% HR-HPV). 10.6% were HPV positive in both EPS and urethral
samples. 6.4% had the same HPV-type in both EPS and urethral samples. 10.6% were 
HPV positive in both EPS and urethral samples. 6.4% had the same HPV-type in both
EPS and urethral samples. The concordance between the urethral samples and EPS
was 62.5% (470/752), with 80 cases double positive and 390 cases double negative 
in both sites. The sensitivity of urethral samples for overall HPV detection was 
54.2% (195/360). Compared to analysis of urethral samples only, the analysis of
EPS increased the HPV prevalence in this population with 26.2%.
CONCLUSION: EPS represent informative sampling material for the study of HPV
epidemiology in the male.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0066630 
PMCID: PMC3682962
PMID: 23799125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1123. Insect Biochem Mol Biol. 2013 Sep;43(9):794-808. doi: 10.1016/j.ibmb.2013.06.001.
Epub 2013 Jun 22.

De novo characterization of transcriptome and gene expression dynamics
in epidermis during the larval-pupal metamorphosis of common cutworm.

Gu J(1), Huang LX, Gong YJ, Zheng SC, Liu L, Huang LH, Feng QL.

Author information: 
(1)Guangdong Provincial Key Lab of Biotechnology for Plant Development, School of
Life Sciences, South China Normal University, 55 W. Zhongshan Ave., Guangzhou
510631, China.

Larval cuticle is degraded and replaced by the pupal counterpart during
larval-pupal metamorphosis in the holometabolous insects. In addition to the
extrinsic transformation, the epidermis goes through significant changes at
molecular levels. To elucidate the intrinsic mechanism of epidermal
metamorphosis, the dynamics of chitin content in the cuticle was examined in an
important agricultural lepidopteran, the common cutworm, and the transcriptome
was analyzed using Illumina sequencing technology. Gene expression profiles
during the metamorphosis were further studied by both the digital gene expression
(DGE) system and real-time quantitative PCR. The results showed that the chitin
content decreased in prepupae and then increased in pupae. A total of 58 million 
sequencing reads were obtained and assembled into 70,346 unigenes. Over 9000
unigenes were identified to express differentially during the transformation
process. As compared with the 6th instar feeding larvae, the most significant
changes took place in the proteasome and metabolic pathways in prepupae and
pupae, respectively. The cytochrome P450s, VHDLs, chitinase, serine protease and 
genes involved in sex pheromone biosynthesis changed their mRNA levels
remarkably. Three chitinolytic enzymes (chitinase, β-N-acetylglucosaminidase and 
chitin deacetylase) showed distinct mRNA expression patterns, the former two
enzymes revealed the highest expression in prepupae, however the latter one
showed its climax mRNA level in pupae. The gene expression patterns suggest that 
chitinase and β-N-acetylglucosaminidase may be responsible for the degradation of
larval cuticles, whereas chitin deacetylase may help to degrade the pupal
counterparts. Gene expression dynamics also implied that the chitin of pupal
cuticle might be formed by recycling of the degraded chitin of larval cuticle
rather than through de novo synthesis. The 20E-induced nuclear receptors seem to 
be important factors regulating chitin metabolic enzymes during the cuticle
remodeling. Our data provide a comprehensive resource for exploring the molecular
mechanism of epidermal metamorphosis in insects.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ibmb.2013.06.001 
PMID: 23796435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1124. Biomed Res Int. 2013;2013:465179. doi: 10.1155/2013/465179. Epub 2013 May 28.

Molecular characterization and clinical impact of TMPRSS2-ERG rearrangement on
prostate cancer: comparison between FISH and RT-PCR.

Fernández-Serra A(1), Rubio L, Calatrava A, Rubio-Briones J, Salgado R, Gil-Benso
R, Espinet B, García-Casado Z, López-Guerrero JA.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Fundación Instituto Valenciano de Oncología, 
Valencia, Spain.

Prostate cancer (PCa) is a very heterogeneous disease, and there are constraints 
in its current diagnosis. Serum PSA levels, digital rectal examination (DRE), and
histopathologic analysis often drive to overdiagnosis and overtreatment. Since
2005, the presence of the genetic rearrangement between transmembrane-serine
protease gene (TMPRSS2) and the erythroblast transformation-specific (ETS) member
ERG (v-ets erythroblastosis virus E26 oncogene homolog avian) has been
demonstrated in almost half of PCa cases. Both FISH and RT-PCR are useful tools
for detecting these rearrangements, but very few comparatives between both
techniques have been published. In this study, we included FFPE tumors from 294
PCa patients treated with radical prostatectomy with more than 5 years of
followup. We constructed a total of 20 tissue microarrays in order to perform
break-apart and tricolor probe FISH approaches that were compared with RT-PCR,
showing a concordance of 80.6% (P < 0.001). The presence of TMPRSS2-ERG
rearrangement was observed in 56.6% of cases. No association between TMPRSS2-ERG 
status and clinicopathological parameters nor biochemical progression and
clinical progression free survival was found. In conclusion, this study
demonstrates that both FISH and RT-PCR are useful tools in the assessment of the 
TMPRSS2-ERG fusion gene status in PCa patients and that this genetic feature per 
se lacks prognostic value.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/465179 
PMCID: PMC3678465
PMID: 23781502  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1125. J Diabetes Complications. 2013 Sep-Oct;27(5):417-21. doi:
10.1016/j.jdiacomp.2013.05.002. Epub 2013 Jun 15.

Amelioration in wound healing in diabetic toll-like receptor-4 knockout mice.

Dasu MR(1), Jialal I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of California at Davis, Sacramento, CA
95816, USA. Electronic address: ravi.dasu@ucdmc.ucdavis.edu.

Toll-like receptor-4 (TLR4) is a sentinel pathogen recognition receptor with a
pivotal role in inflammation, tissue injury, diabetes and its complications. The 
aim of the study was to examine the contribution of TLR4 expression and
activation to the prolonged inflammation observed in diabetic wounds. Diabetes
was induced in male C57BL/6J and TLR4 knockout (KO) mice using streptozotocin
(STZ) with matching non-diabetic mice as control. After 2weeks of persistent
hyperglycemia in the mice, full-thickness excision wounds were made on the backs 
aseptically. Total RNA and protein were subjected to real-time PCR and western
blot analyses. Wound sizes were measured using digital planimetry. TLR4 mRNA and 
protein expression increased significantly in wounds of diabetic mice compared
with non-diabetic mice (P<0.05). IL-6, TNF-α concentration and nuclear factor-κB 
(NF-κB) activation were increased in diabetic wounds compared to non-diabetic
wounds and knockout of TLR4 alleviates wound healing and decreases inflammation
in diabetic TLR4 KO mice. Collectively, our findings show that increased TLR4
mRNA and protein expression and activation contribute to the prolonged
inflammation in the diabetic wounds and that absence of TLR4 may result in
decreased inflammation and improved wound healing.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jdiacomp.2013.05.002 
PMCID: PMC3770740
PMID: 23773694  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1126. RNA Biol. 2013 Jul;10(7):1080-6. doi: 10.4161/rna.25246. Epub 2013 Jun 3.

Real-time quantitative PCR and droplet digital PCR for plant miRNAs in mammalian 
blood provide little evidence for general uptake of dietary miRNAs: limited
evidence for general uptake of dietary plant xenomiRs.

Witwer KW(1), McAlexander MA, Queen SE, Adams RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Comparative Pathobiology; The Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine; Baltimore, ME USA.

Evidence that exogenous dietary miRNAs enter the bloodstream and tissues of
ingesting animals has been accompanied by an indication that at least one plant
miRNA, miR168, participates in "cross-kingdom" regulation of a mammalian
transcript. If confirmed, these findings would support investigation of
miRNA-based dietary interventions in disease. Here, blood was obtained pre- and
post-prandially (1, 4, 12 h) from pigtailed macaques that received a miRNA-rich
plant-based substance. Plant and endogenous miRNAs were measured by RT-qPCR.
Although low-level amplification was observed for some plant miRNA assays,
amplification was variable and possibly non-specific, as suggested by droplet
digital PCR. A consistent response to dietary intake was not observed. While our 
results do not support general and consistent uptake of dietary plant miRNAs,
additional studies are needed to establish whether or not plant or animal
xenomiRs are transferred across the gut in sufficient quantity to regulate
endogenous genes.

DOI: 10.4161/rna.25246 
PMCID: PMC3849155
PMID: 23770773  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1127. Gene. 2013 Sep 15;527(1):161-6. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.05.049. Epub 2013 Jun
11.

Differentially expressed genes in the ovary of the sixth day of pupal "Ming"
lethal egg mutant of silkworm, Bombyx mori.

Gao P(1), Chen AL, Zhao QL, Shen XJ, Qiu ZY, Xia DG, Tang SM, Zhang GZ.

Author information: 
(1)Jiangsu University of Science and Technology, Zhenjiang, Jiangsu 212003,
China.

The "Ming" lethal egg mutant (l-em) is a vitelline membrane mutant in silkworm,
Bombyx mori. The eggs laid by the l-em mutant lose water, ultimately causing
death within an hour. Previous studies have shown that the deletion of BmEP80 is 
responsible for the l-em mutation in silkworm, B. mori. In the current study,
digital gene expression (DGE) was performed to investigate the difference of gene
expression in ovaries between wild type and l-em mutant on the sixth day of the
pupal stage to obtain a global view of gene expression profiles using the ovaries
of three l-em mutants and three wild types. The results showed a total of
3,463,495 and 3,607,936 clean tags in the wild type and the l-em mutant
libraries, respectively. Compared with those of wild type, 239 differentially
expressed genes were detected in the l-em mutant, wherein 181 genes are
up-regulated and 58 genes are down-regulated in the mutant strain. The Kyoto
Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis results showed that no 
pathway was significantly enriched and three pathways are tightly related to
protein synthesis among the five leading pathways. Moreover, the expression
profiles of eight important differentially expressed genes related to oogenesis
changed. These results provide a comprehensive gene expression analysis of
oogenesis and vitellogenesis in B. mori which facilitates understanding of both
the specific molecular mechanism of the 1-em mutant and Lepidopteran oogenesis in
general.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.05.049 
PMID: 23769927  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1128. Clin Biochem. 2013 Oct;46(15):1561-5. doi: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2013.06.002.
Epub 2013 Jun 13.

A stabilizing reagent prevents cell-free DNA contamination by cellular DNA in
plasma during blood sample storage and shipping as determined by digital PCR.

Norton SE(1), Lechner JM, Williams T, Fernando MR.

Author information: 
(1)Research and Development Division, Streck Inc., Omaha, NE 68128, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To study the ability of a stabilizing reagent to prevent cellular DNA
contamination of cell-free DNA (cfDNA) in plasma during whole blood sample
storage and shipping.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Samples were drawn from healthy donors into K₃EDTA and
Cell-Free DNA BCTs (BCT) and stored at room temperature (RT). Aliquots were
removed at specified time points and cfDNA was purified from the plasma. A
Droplet Digital PCR (ddPCR) assay that amplifies a short β-actin gene fragment
(136 bp) was used to measure the total plasma cfDNA (pDNA) concentration while a 
longer β-actin fragment (420 bp) was used to quantify genomic DNA (gDNA). In a
follow-up experiment, blood samples drawn into the same types of tubes were
shipped round trip by overnight air before cfDNA was isolated and analyzed.
RESULTS: Blood stored in K₃EDTA tubes at RT showed increases in pDNA and gDNA
concentrations over time. However, both pDNA and gDNA levels remained stable in
BCT for at least seven days. On day 14, there was a 4.5-fold increase in pDNA in 
BCT as compared to >200-fold increase in K₃EDTA tubes. Likewise, gDNA increased
<2-fold on day 14 in BCT as opposed to a 456-fold increase in K₃EDTA tubes.
Similar results were observed after samples were shipped.
CONCLUSIONS: Cell-Free DNA BCTs prevent gDNA contamination that may occur due to 
nucleated cell disruption during sample storage and shipping. This novel blood
collection tube provides a method for obtaining stable cfDNA samples for rare
target detection and accurate analysis while mitigating the threat of gDNA
contamination.

Copyright © 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2013.06.002 
PMID: 23769817  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1129. Gene. 2013 Sep 15;527(1):154-60. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.05.071. Epub 2013 Jun
7.

Identification and expression analysis of a new glycoside hydrolase family 55
exo-β-1,3-glucanase-encoding gene in Volvariella volvacea suggests a role in
fruiting body development.

Tao Y(1), Xie B, Yang Z, Chen Z, Chen B, Deng Y, Jiang Y, van Peer AF.

Author information: 
(1)College of Horticulture, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, Fuzhou
350002, China.

The edible straw mushroom Volvariella volvacea is an important crop in South East
Asia and is predominantly harvested in the egg stage. Rapid stipe elongation and 
cap expansion result in a swift transition from the egg to elongation and
maturation stage, which are subjected to fast senescence and deterioration. In
other mushrooms, β-1,3-glucanases have been associated with degradation
(softening) of the cell wall during stipe elongation and senescence. We present a
new glycoside hydrolase family 55 (GH55) exo-β-1,3-glucanase gene, exg2, and
highly conserved deduced EXG2 protein. The 3D model and presumed catalytic
residues of V. volvacea EXG2 are identical to Lentinula edodes EXG2 and
Phanerochaete chrysosporium Lam55A, supporting similar enzymatic functions. In
addition to previous association to stipe elongation and senescence, our data
clearly indicates a role for cap (pileus) expansion. Digital gene expression,
quantitative PCR and isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification
analysis showed low exg2 and EXG2 levels in primordia, button, egg and elongation
stages and significantly increased levels in the maturation stage. Subsequent
relative quantitative PCR analysis designated expression of exg2 to the stipe in 
the elongation stage and to the pileus and stipe in the maturation stage. EXG2
cell wall softening activity, close correlation of exg2 expression with the
principal expanding mushroom tissues and a strong conservation of expression
patterns and protein sequences in other mushrooms, make V. volvacea exg2 an
important candidate for future studies on mechanisms of fruiting body expansion
and senescence causing commodity value loss.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.05.071 
PMID: 23751305  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1130. Biotechniques. 2013 Jun;54(6):327-36. doi: 10.2144/000114029.

Digital PCR to determine the number of transcripts from single neurons after
patch-clamp recording.

Faragó N(1), Kocsis ÁK, Lovas S, Molnár G, Boldog E, Rózsa M, Szemenyei V, Vámos 
E, Nagy LI, Tamás G, Puskás LG.

Author information: 
(1)Avidin Ltd, Szeged, Hungary.

Whole-cell patch-clamp recording enables detection of electrophysiological
signals from single neurons as well as harvesting of perisomatic RNA through the 
patch pipette for subsequent gene expression analysis. Amplification and
profiling of RNA with traditional quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) do not
provide exact quantitation due to experimental variation caused by the limited
amount of nucleic acid in a single cell. Here we describe a protocol for
quantifying mRNA or miRNA expression in individual neurons after patch-clamp
recording using high-density nanocapillary digital PCR (dPCR). Expression of a
known cell-type dependent marker gene (gabrd), as well as oxidative-stress
related induction of hspb1 and hmox1 expression, was quantified in individual
neurogliaform and pyramidal cells, respectively. The miRNA mir-132, which plays a
role in neurodevelopment, was found to be equally expressed in three different
types of neurons. The accuracy and sensitivity of this method were further
validated using synthetic spike-in templates and by detecting genes with very low
levels of expression.

DOI: 10.2144/000114029 
PMID: 23750542  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1131. J Pathol. 2013 Sep;231(1):53-62. doi: 10.1002/path.4210. Epub 2013 Jul 8.

Methylation-specific digital karyotyping of HPV16E6E7-expressing human
keratinocytes identifies novel methylation events in cervical carcinogenesis.

Steenbergen RD(1), Ongenaert M, Snellenberg S, Trooskens G, van der Meide WF,
Pandey D, Bloushtain-Qimron N, Polyak K, Meijer CJ, Snijders PJ, Van Criekinge W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, VU University Medical Centre, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands. r.steenbergen@vumc.nl

Transformation of epithelial cells by high-risk human papillomavirus (hrHPV)
types can lead to anogenital carcinomas, particularly cervical cancer, and
oropharyngeal cancers. This process is associated with DNA methylation
alterations, often affecting tumour suppressor gene expression. This study aimed 
to comprehensively unravel genome-wide DNA methylation events linked to a
transforming hrHPV-infection, which is driven by deregulated expression of the
viral oncogenes E6 and E7 in dividing cells. Primary human keratinocytes
transduced with HPV16E6E7 and their untransduced counterparts were subjected to
methylation-specific digital karyotyping (MSDK) to screen for genome-wide
DNA-methylation changes at different stages of HPV-induced transformation.
Integration of the obtained methylation profiles with genome-wide gene expression
patterns of cervical carcinomas identified 34 genes with increased methylation in
HPV-transformed cells and reduced expression in cervical carcinomas. For 12 genes
(CLIC3, CREB3L1, FAM19A4, LFNG, LHX1, MRC2, NKX2-8, NPTX-1, PHACTR3, PRDM14, SOST
and TNFSF13) specific methylation in HPV-containing cell lines was confirmed by
semi-quantitative methylation-specific PCR. Subsequent analysis of FAM19A4, LHX1,
NKX2-8, NPTX-1, PHACTR3 and PRDM14 in cervical tissue specimens showed increasing
methylation levels for all genes with disease progression. All six genes were
frequently methylated in cervical carcinomas, with highest frequencies (up to
100%) seen for FAM19A4, PHACTR3 and PRDM14. Analysis of hrHPV-positive cervical
scrapes revealed significantly increased methylation levels of the latter three
genes in women with high-grade cervical disease compared to controls. In
conclusion, MSDK analysis of HPV16-transduced keratinocytes at different stages
of HPV-induced transformation resulted in the identification of novel DNA
methylation events, involving FAM19A4, LHX1, NKX2-8, PHACTR3 and PRDM14 genes in 
cervical carcinogenesis. These genes may provide promising triage markers to
assess the presence of (pre)cancerous cervical lesions in hrHPV-positive women.

Copyright © 2013 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by 
John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/path.4210 
PMID: 23674368  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1132. Endocrine. 2014 Mar;45(2):302-10. doi: 10.1007/s12020-013-9986-y. Epub 2013 May
15.

MicroRNA-17-92 cluster regulates osteoblast proliferation and differentiation.

Zhou M(1), Ma J, Chen S, Chen X, Yu X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Endocrinology and Metabolism, West China Hospital, Sichuan
University, No. 37 Guoxue Xiang, Chengdu, 610041, People's Republic of China.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been identified to play important functions during
osteoblast proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. The miR-17~92 cluster
is highly conserved in all vertebrates. Loss-of-function of the miR-17-92 cluster
results in smaller embryos and immediate postnatal death of all animals. Germline
hemizygous deletions of MIR17HG are accounted for microcephaly, short stature,
and digital abnormalities in a few cases of Feingold syndrome. These reports
indicate that miR-17~92 may play important function in skeletal development and
mature. To determine the functional roles of miR-17~92 in bone metabolism as well
as osteoblast proliferation and differentiation. Murine embryonic stem cells D3
and osteoprogenitor cell line MC3T3-E1 were induced to differentiate into
osteoblasts; the expression of miR-17-92 was assayed by quantitative real-time
RT-PCR. The skeletal phenotypes were assayed in mice heterozygous for miR-17~92
(miR-17~92 (+/Δ) ). To determine the possibly direct function of miR-17~92 in
bone cells, osteoblasts from miR-17~92 (+/Δ) mice were investigated by ex vivo
cell culture. miR-17, miR-92a, and miR-20a within miR-17-92 cluster were
expressed at high level in bone tissue and osteoblasts. The expression of
miR-17-92 was down-regulated along with osteoblast differentiation, the lowest
level was found in mature osteoblasts. Compared to wildtype controls, miR-17-92
(+/Δ) mice showed significantly lower trabecular and cortical bone mineral
density, bone volume and trabecular number at 10 weeks old. mRNA expression of
Runx2 and type I collagen was significantly lower in bone from miR-17-92 (+/Δ)
mice. Osteoblasts from miR-17-92 (+/Δ) mice showed lower proliferation rate, ALP 
activity and less calcification. Our research suggests that the miR-17-92 cluster
critically regulates bone metabolism, and this regulation is mostly through its
function in osteoblasts.

DOI: 10.1007/s12020-013-9986-y 
PMID: 23673870  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1133. PLoS One. 2013 May 3;8(5):e62153. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0062153. Print 2013.

Novel molecular tumor cell markers in regional lymph nodes and blood samples from
patients undergoing surgery for non-small cell lung cancer.

Nordgård O(1), Singh G, Solberg S, Jørgensen L, Halvorsen AR, Smaaland R,
Brustugun OT, Helland Å.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology and Oncology, Stavanger University Hospital,
Stavanger, Norway. nood@sus.no

INTRODUCTION: Recent evidence suggests that microscopic lymph node metastases and
circulating tumor cells may have clinical importance in lung cancer. The purpose 
of this study was to identify new molecular markers for tumor cells in regional
lymph nodes (LNs) and peripheral blood (PB) from patients with non-small cell
lung cancer (NSCLC).
METHODS: Candidate markers were selected based on digital transcript profiling
and previous literature. KRT19, CEACAM5, EPCAM, DSG3, SFTPA, SFTPC and SFTPB mRNA
levels were initially validated by real-time reverse transcription PCR-based
quantification in 16 NSCLC tumors and 22 LNs and 12 PB samples from individuals
without known cancer. Five of the candidate markers were selected for secondary
validation by quantification in parallel tumor biopsies, regional LNs and PB
samples from 55 patients undergoing surgery for NSCLC. LN and PB marker status
were compared to clinicopathological patient data.
RESULTS: All selected markers except DSG3 were present at high levels in the
primary tumors and at very low or non-detectable levels in normal LNs and PB in
the first round of validation, indicating a potential for detecting tumor cells
in NSCLC patients. The expression profiles of KRT19, CEACAM5, DSG3, SFTPA and
SFTPC mRNA were confirmed in the larger group during the secondary validation.
Using the highest normal LN level of each marker as threshold, 39 (71%) of the 55
patients had elevated levels of at least one marker in regional LNs. Similarly,
26 (47%) patients had elevated levels of at least one marker in PB. A
significantly higher number of patients with adenocarcinomas had positive LN
status for these markers, compared with other histological types (P = 0.004).
CONCLUSIONS: Several promising molecular tumor cell markers in regional LNs and
PB were identified, including the new SFTPA and SFTPC mRNAs. Clinical follow-up
in a larger cohort is needed to elucidate their prognostic value.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0062153 
PMCID: PMC3643953
PMID: 23671585  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1134. J Urol. 2014 Jan;191(1):220-6. doi: 10.1016/j.juro.2013.05.019. Epub 2013 May 10.

Expressed prostatic secretion biomarkers improve stratification of NCCN active
surveillance candidates: performance of secretion capacity and TMPRSS2:ERG
models.

Whelan C(1), Kawachi M(1), Smith DD(2), Linehan J(1), Babilonia G(1), Mejia R(3),
Wilson T(1), Smith SS(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Urology, City of Hope, Duarte, California. (2)Division of
Biostatistics, City of Hope, Duarte, California. (3)Clinical Research Information
Support, City of Hope, Duarte, California. (4)Division of Urology, City of Hope, 
Duarte, California; Beckman Research Institute, City of Hope, Duarte, California.
Electronic address: ssmith@coh.org.

PURPOSE: Active surveillance is a viable patient option for prostate cancer
provided that a clinical determination of low risk and presumably organ confined 
disease can be made. To standardize risk stratification schemes the NCCN
(National Comprehensive Cancer Network®) provides guidelines for the active
surveillance option. We determined the effectiveness of expressed prostatic
secretion biomarkers for detecting occult risk factors in NCCN active
surveillance candidates.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Expressed prostatic secretion specimens were obtained
before robot-assisted radical prostatectomy. Secretion capacity biomarkers,
including total RNA and expressed prostatic secretion specimen volume, were
measured by standard techniques. RNA expression biomarkers, including TXNRD1
mRNA, prostate specific antigen mRNA, TMPRSS2:ERG fusion mRNA and PCA3 mRNA, were
measured by quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction.
RESULTS: Of the 528 patients from whom expressed prostatic secretions were
collected 216 were eligible for active surveillance under NCCN guidelines.
Variable selection on logistic regression identified 2 models, including one
featuring types III and VI TMPRSS2:ERG variants, and one featuring 2 secretion
capacity biomarkers. Of the 2 high performing models the secretion capacity model
was most effective for detecting cases in this group that were up-staged or
up-staged plus upgraded. It decreased the risk of up-staging in patients with a
negative test almost eightfold and decreased the risk of up-staging plus
upgrading about fivefold while doubling the prevalence of up-staging in the
positive test group.
CONCLUSIONS: Noninvasive expressed prostatic secretion testing may improve
patient acceptance of active surveillance by dramatically reducing the presence
of occult risk factors among those eligible for active surveillance under NCCN
guidelines.

Copyright © 2014 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2013.05.019 
PMCID: PMC3936654
PMID: 23669563  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1135. Anal Biochem. 2013 Aug 15;439(2):201-3. doi: 10.1016/j.ab.2013.04.024. Epub 2013 
May 7.

Touchdown digital polymerase chain reaction for quantification of highly
conserved sequences in the HIV-1 genome.

De Spiegelaere W(1), Malatinkova E, Kiselinova M, Bonczkowski P, Verhofstede C,
Vogelaers D, Vandekerckhove L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences,
Ghent University, 9000 Ghent, Belgium. ward.despiegelaere@ugent.be

Digital polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is an emerging absolute quantification
method based on the limiting dilution principle and end-point PCR. This
methodology provides high flexibility in assay design without influencing
quantitative accuracy. This article describes an assay to quantify HIV DNA that
targets a highly conserved region of the HIV-1 genome that hampers optimal probe 
design. To maintain high specificity and allow probe binding and hydrolysis of a 
probe with low melting temperature, a two-stage touchdown PCR was designed with a
first round of amplification at high temperature and a subsequent round at low
temperature to allow accumulation of fluorescence.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ab.2013.04.024 
PMID: 23664868  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1136. Equine Vet J. 2014 Mar;46(2):203-9. doi: 10.1111/evj.12092. Epub 2013 Jul 22.

Regulation of hypoxia-inducible factor-1α and related genes in equine digital
lamellae and in cultured keratinocytes.

Pawlak EA(1), Geor RJ, Watts MR, Black SJ, Johnson PJ, Belknap JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, University of Massachusetts,
USA.

REASONS FOR PERFORMING STUDY: Hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1A) is an
important protein in the regulation/induction of many genes in the cellular and
tissue response to hypoxia and a central mediator in inflammatory signalling. As 
both hypoxia and inflammatory events are purported to occur in the lamellar
epidermis in sepsis-related laminitis in the equid, HIF-1A may play a central
role in this disease process.
OBJECTIVESS: To assess the regulation of HIF-1A and HIF-1A-related genes in the
equine keratinocyte in vitro and in the lamellar tissue of horses with
sepsis-related laminitis.
STUDY DESIGN: In vivo and in vitro experiments.
METHODS: Real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) and immunoblotting were performed
to assess the mRNA and protein concentrations of HIF-1A and the mRNA
concentrations of HIF-1A-related genes in cultured equine keratinocytes and in
lamellar samples from black walnut extract (BWE)- and carbohydrate overload
(CHO)-induced laminitis. Hypoxia-inducible factor-1α was further localised via
indirect immunofluorescence in frozen lamellar tissue sections.
RESULTS: Hypoxia-inducible factor-1α appears to be regulated primarily at the
post transcriptional level in the cultured equine keratinocyte, resulting in
increased HIF-1A in response to hypoxia but not to lipopolysaccharide exposure.
Hypoxia-inducible factor-1α is present at high concentrations in the normal
equine lamina, and is increased in Obel grade 1 (OG1) stage laminitis in the CHO 
model of laminitis. Equine lamellar mRNA concentrations of cyclo-oxygenase-2 and 
inducible nitric oxide synthase, but not glucose transporter 1, are increased in 
the BWE and CHO models of laminitis.
CONCLUSIONS AND POTENTIAL RELEVANCE: These data indicate that the normal equine
lamellae are profoundly hypoxic in comparison with other tissues. The increased
mRNA concentrations of cyclo-oxygenase-2 and inducible nitric oxide synthase 2 in
equine keratinocytes exposed to hypoxia and lipopolysaccharide, and in lamellar
tissue from BWE and CHO models of sepsis-related laminitis, suggest that the
marked lamellar inflammatory gene expression in sepsis-related laminitis may be
due to an interaction of constitutively high lamellar keratinocyte HIF-1A
signalling with inflammatory signalling, possibly induced by circulating
inflammatory mediators.

© 2013 EVJ Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/evj.12092 
PMID: 23663159  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1137. PLoS One. 2013 May 2;8(5):e62583. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0062583. Print 2013.

Quantitative analysis of food and feed samples with droplet digital PCR.

Morisset D(1), Štebih D, Milavec M, Gruden K, Žel J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Systems Biology, National Institute of
Biology, Ljubljana, Slovenia. dany.morisset@nib.si

In this study, the applicability of droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) for routine
analysis in food and feed samples was demonstrated with the quantification of
genetically modified organisms (GMOs). Real-time quantitative polymerase chain
reaction (qPCR) is currently used for quantitative molecular analysis of the
presence of GMOs in products. However, its use is limited for detecting and
quantifying very small numbers of DNA targets, as in some complex food and feed
matrices. Using ddPCR duplex assay, we have measured the absolute numbers of
MON810 transgene and hmg maize reference gene copies in DNA samples. Key
performance parameters of the assay were determined. The ddPCR system is shown to
offer precise absolute and relative quantification of targets, without the need
for calibration curves. The sensitivity (five target DNA copies) of the ddPCR
assay compares well with those of individual qPCR assays and of the chamber
digital PCR (cdPCR) approach. It offers a dynamic range over four orders of
magnitude, greater than that of cdPCR. Moreover, when compared to qPCR, the ddPCR
assay showed better repeatability at low target concentrations and a greater
tolerance to inhibitors. Finally, ddPCR throughput and cost are advantageous
relative to those of qPCR for routine GMO quantification. It is thus concluded
that ddPCR technology can be applied for routine quantification of GMOs, or any
other domain where quantitative analysis of food and feed samples is needed.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0062583 
PMCID: PMC3642186
PMID: 23658750  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1138. PLoS One. 2013 May 1;8(5):e61190. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0061190. Print 2013.

Transcriptome of the Lymantria dispar (gypsy moth) larval midgut in response to
infection by Bacillus thuringiensis.

Sparks ME(1), Blackburn MB, Kuhar D, Gundersen-Rindal DE.

Author information: 
(1)United States Department of Agriculture -ARS Invasive Insect Biocontrol and
Behavior Laboratory, Beltsville, Maryland, United States of America.

Transcriptomic profiles of the serious lepidopteran insect pest Lymantria dispar 
(gypsy moth) were characterized in the larval midgut in response to infection by 
Bacillus thuringiensis kurstaki, a biopesticide commonly used for its control.
RNA-Seq approaches were used to define a set of 49,613 assembled transcript
sequences, of which 838, 1,248 and 3,305 were respectively partitioned into
high-, mid- and low-quality tiers on the basis of homology information. Digital
gene expression profiles suggested genes differentially expressed at 24 hours
post infection, and qRT-PCR analyses were performed for verification. The
differentially expressed genes primarily associated with digestive function,
including α-amylase, lipase and carboxypeptidase; immune response, including
C-type lectin 4; developmental genes such as arylphorin; as well as a variety of 
binding proteins: cellular retinoic acid binding protein (lipid-binding),
insulin-related peptide binding protein (protein-binding) and ovary C/EBPg
transcription factor (nucleic acid-binding). This is the first study conducted to
specifically investigate gypsy moth response to a bacterial infection challenge
using large-scale sequencing technologies, and the results highlight important
genes that could be involved in biopesticide resistance development or could
serve as targets for biologically-based control mechanisms of this insect pest.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0061190 
PMCID: PMC3641027
PMID: 23658687  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1139. PLoS One. 2013 Apr 26;8(4):e62961. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0062961. Print 2013.

Picoinjection enables digital detection of RNA with droplet rt-PCR.

Eastburn DJ(1), Sciambi A, Abate AR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering and Therapeutic Sciences, California Institute
for Quantitative Biosciences, University of California San Francisco, San
Francisco, California, USA.

The ability to add reagents to drops in a sequential fashion is necessary for
numerous applications of microfluidics in biology. An important method for
accomplishing this is picoinjection, a technique in which reagents are injected
into aqueous drops using an electric field. While picoinjection has been shown to
allow the precise addition of reagents to drops, its compatibility with
biological reactions is yet to be thoroughly demonstrated. Here, we investigate
the compatibility of picoinjection with digital RT-PCR Taqman assays, reactions
that incorporate nucleic acids, enzymes, and other common biological reagents. We
find that picoinjection is compatible with this assay and enables the detection
of RNA transcripts at rates comparable to workflows not incorporating
picoinjection. We also find that picoinjection results in negligible transfer of 
material between drops and that the drops faithfully retain their
compartmentalization.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0062961 
PMCID: PMC3637249
PMID: 23658657  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1140. Nucleic Acid Ther. 2013 Jun;23(3):188-94. doi: 10.1089/nat.2013.0427. Epub 2013
May 8.

Digital quantitation of potential therapeutic target RNAs.

Dodd DW(1), Gagnon KT, Corey DR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at
Dallas, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.

Accurate determination of the amount of a given RNA within a cell is necessary to
gain a full understanding of the RNA's function and regulation. Typically, the
abundance of RNA is measured by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR).
With qPCR, however, absolute quantification is not possible unless an adequate
reference standard curve is generated. The method is not well suited for
detecting low copy number templates and values vary depending on the specific
primers used. To overcome these drawbacks, digital PCR (dPCR) has been developed 
to obtain exact values for RNA copies in a sample. Here we report the
characterization of droplet digital PCR (ddPCR). We used ddPCR to quantify long
noncoding RNAs from various subcellular compartments within human cells and found
that results obtained using ddPCR parallel those from qPCR. Mutant huntingtin
(HTT) protein is the cause of Huntington's Disease, and we show that we can
quantify human HTT messenger RNA and discriminate between the mutant and
wild-type HTT alleles using ddPCR. These results reveal insights into the design 
of experiments using ddPCR and show that ddPCR can be a robust tool for
identifying the number of RNA species inside of cells.

DOI: 10.1089/nat.2013.0427 
PMCID: PMC3660070
PMID: 23656494  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1141. PLoS One. 2013 Apr 24;8(4):e61583. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0061583. Print 2013.

Tumor angiogenesis after heated lipiodol infusion via the hepatic artery in a
rabbit model of VX2 liver cancer.

Cao W(1), Xu X, Zhang J, Duan Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Interventional Radiology, Tangdu Hospital, The Fourth Military
Medical University, Xi'an, China. cawe-001@163.com

OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to observe the changes in tumor angiogenesis after
heated lipiodol (60°C) infusion via the hepatic artery in a rabbit model of VX2
liver cancer.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty rabbits with VX2 hepatic tumors were randomly
divided into 2 groups (10 rabbits in each group). Under anesthesia, a
trans-catheter hepatic arterial infusion was performed, and lipiodol (37°C;
control group) or heated lipiodol (60°C; treated group) was injected into the
hepatic arteries of the animals. Then, changes in tumor angiogenesis were
assessed using the following markers and methods. 1. Vascular endothelial growth 
factor receptor (VEGFR) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression 
levels in the tumor were assessed using western blotting and real-time
quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR). 2. Proliferating cell nuclear
antigen (PCNA) expression in the tumor was assessed through immunohistochemical
staining. 3. The morphological changes in tumor vascular endothelial cells were
observed using transmission electron microscopy (TEM).
RESULTS: VEGFR and VEGF mRNA and protein expression levels were reduced in the
treated group compared to the control group. PCNA protein showed reduced
expression levels in the treated group compared to the control group. TEM
indicated that the endothelial cell endoplasmic reticulum expanded, the
chondriosome was swollen, and the endothelial cell microvilli were decreased
after heated lipiodol infusion.
CONCLUSIONS: The tumor angiogenesis of rabbits with VX2 cancer was inhibited
after arterial heated lipiodol infusion compared to lipiodol infusion.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0061583 
PMCID: PMC3634808
PMID: 23637861  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1142. J Clin Microbiol. 2013 Jul;51(7):2195-203. doi: 10.1128/JCM.00622-13. Epub 2013
May 1.

Development and evaluation of a next-generation digital PCR diagnostic assay for 
ocular Chlamydia trachomatis infections.

Roberts CH(1), Last A, Molina-Gonzalez S, Cassama E, Butcher R, Nabicassa M,
McCarthy E, Burr SE, Mabey DC, Bailey RL, Holland MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Research Department, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, 
London, United Kingdom. chrissy.roberts@lshtm.ac.uk

Comment in
    Expert Rev Mol Diagn. 2013 Nov;13(8):789-92.

Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) is an emulsion PCR process that performs absolute
quantitation of nucleic acids. We developed a ddPCR assay for Chlamydia
trachomatis infections and found it to be accurate and precise. Using PCR
mixtures containing plasmids engineered to include the PCR target sequences, we
were able to quantify with a dynamic range between 0.07 and 3,160 targets/μl
(r(2) = 0.9927) with >95% confidence. Using 1,509 clinical conjunctival swab
samples from a population in which trachoma is endemic in Guinea Bissau, we
evaluated the specificity and sensitivity of the quantitative ddPCR assay in
diagnosing ocular C. trachomatis infections by comparing the performances of
ddPCR and the Roche Amplicor CT/NG test. We defined ddPCR tests as positive when 
we had ≥95% confidence in a nonzero estimate of target load. The sensitivity of
ddPCR against Amplicor was 73.3% (95% confidence interval [CI], 67.9 to 78.7%),
and specificity was 99.1% (95% CI, 98.6 to 99.6%). Negative and positive
predictive values were 94.6% (95% CI, 93.4 to 95.8%) and 94.5% (95% CI, 91.3 to
97.7%), respectively. Based on Amplicor CT/NG testing, the estimated population
prevalence of C. trachomatis ocular infection was ∼17.5%. Receiver-operator curve
analysis was used to select critical cutoff values for use in clinical settings
in which a balance between higher sensitivity and specificity is required. We
concluded that ddPCR is an effective diagnostic technology suitable for both
research and clinical use in diagnosing ocular C. trachomatis infections.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.00622-13 
PMCID: PMC3697714
PMID: 23637300  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1143. Clin Cancer Res. 2013 Jun 15;19(12):3276-84. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-12-3768. 
Epub 2013 May 1.

Noninvasive detection of HER2 amplification with plasma DNA digital PCR.

Gevensleben H(1), Garcia-Murillas I, Graeser MK, Schiavon G, Osin P, Parton M,
Smith IE, Ashworth A, Turner NC.

Author information: 
(1)The Breakthrough Breast Cancer Research Centre, Institute of Cancer Research, 
London, United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: Digital PCR is a highly accurate method of determining DNA
concentration. We adapted digital PCR to determine the presence of oncogenic
amplification through noninvasive analysis of circulating free plasma DNA and
exemplify this approach by developing a plasma DNA digital PCR assay for HER2
copy number.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: The reference gene for copy number assessment was assessed
experimentally and bioinformatically. Chromosome 17 pericentromeric probes were
shown to be suboptimal, and EFTUD2 at chromosome position 17q21.31 was selected
for analysis. Digital PCR assay parameters were determined on plasma samples from
a development cohort of 65 patients and assessed in an independent validation
cohort of plasma samples from 58 patients with metastatic breast cancer. The
sequential probability ratio test was used to assign the plasma DNA digital PCR
test as being HER2-positive or -negative in the validation cohort.
RESULTS: In the development cohort, the HER2:EFTUD2 plasma DNA copy number ratio 
had a receiver operator area under the curve (AUC) = 0.92 [95% confidence
interval (CI), 0.86-0.99, P = 0.0003]. In the independent validation cohort, 64% 
(7 of 11) of patients with HER2-amplified cancers were classified as plasma
digital PCR HER2-positive and 94% (44 of 47) of patients with HER2-nonamplified
cancers were classified as digital PCR HER2-negative, with a positive and
negative predictive value of 70% and 92%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Analysis of plasma DNA with digital PCR has the potential to screen
for the acquisition of HER2 amplification in metastatic breast cancer. This
approach could potentially be adapted to the analysis of any locus amplified in
cancer.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-12-3768 
PMID: 23637122  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1144. Cytogenet Genome Res. 2013;140(1):46-54. doi: 10.1159/000350786. Epub 2013 Apr
26.

Dual-color high-resolution fiber-FISH analysis on lethal white syndrome carriers 
in sheep.

Pauciullo A(1), Fleck K, Lühken G, Di Berardino D, Erhardt G.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Animal Breeding and Genetics, Justus-Liebig University, DE–35390 
Giessen, Germany. alfredo.pauciullo@agrar.uni-giessen.de

Molecular defects occurring in the endothelin receptor type-B (EDNRB) gene are
known to be associated with pigmentary anomalies and intestinal aganglionosis in 
humans, rodents and horses. We carried out a cytogenetic investigation in 2 ewes 
heterozygous for the deletion of the EDNRB gene and in 2 more females as control.
The RBA-banding showed that all 4 ewes were karyologically normal. EDNRB
gene-specific probes were produced by PCR and cloning. The application of the
R-banding and propidium iodide-staining fluorescent in situ hybridization allowed
mapping the gene to OAR 10q22 and confirmed the heterozygous status of the ewes
investigated for the EDNRB gene deletion. For the fine estimation of the gene
length in sheep and for the correct sizing of the chromosomal gap, a dual-color
FISH was applied to high-resolution DNA fibers in combination with digital
imaging microscopy. The comparison of the DNA fiber barcodes indicated a
chromosomal deletion larger than the EDNRB gene itself. The length of the gene,
not known for sheep until now, was estimated to be ∼21 kb, whereas the
microchromosomal deletion was ∼100 kb. EDNRB is located in a chromosomal region
previously shown to be a fragile site. The applied method allowed locating the
potential breakpoints, thus permitting further interesting prospective
investigations also in the field of the fragile sites in sheep.

Copyright © 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000350786 
PMID: 23635529  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1145. Int J Cardiol. 2013 Oct 3;168(3):2726-33. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2013.03.095. Epub
2013 Apr 18.

Peripheral blood transcriptome sequencing reveals rejection-relevant genes in
long-term heart transplantation.

Chen Y(1), Zhang H, Xiao X, Jia Y, Wu W, Liu L, Jiang J, Zhu B, Meng X, Chen W.

Author information: 
(1)CAS Key laboratory of Pathogenic Microbiology and Immunology, Institute of
Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China; The Key
Laboratory of Genome Sciences and Information, Beijing Institute of Genomics,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China.

BACKGROUND: Peripheral blood-based gene expression patterns have been
investigated as biomarkers to monitor the immune system and rule out rejection
after heart transplantation. Recent advances in the high-throughput deep
sequencing (HTS) technologies provide new leads in transcriptome analysis.
METHODS: By performing Solexa/Illumina's digital gene expression (DGE) profiling,
we analyzed gene expression profiles of PBMCs from 6 quiescent (grade 0) and 6
rejection (grade 2R&3R) heart transplant recipients at more than 6 months after
transplantation. Subsequently, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction
(qRT-PCR) was carried out in an independent validation cohort of 47 individuals
from three rejection groups (ISHLT, grade 0,1R, 2R&3R).
RESULTS: Through DGE sequencing and qPCR validation, 10 genes were identified as 
informative genes for detection of cardiac transplant rejection. A further
clustering analysis showed that the 10 genes were not only effective for
distinguishing patients with acute cardiac allograft rejection, but also
informative for discriminating patients with renal allograft rejection based on
both blood and biopsy samples. Moreover, PPI network analysis revealed that the
10 genes were connected to each other within a short interaction distance.
CONCLUSIONS: We proposed a 10-gene signature for heart transplant patients at
high-risk of developing severe rejection, which was found to be effective as well
in other organ transplant. Moreover, we supposed that these genes function
systematically as biomarkers in long-time allograft rejection. Further validation
in broad transplant population would be required before the non-invasive
biomarkers can be generally utilized to predict the risk of transplant rejection.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2013.03.095 
PMID: 23602870  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1146. J Clin Microbiol. 2013 Jul;51(7):2033-9. doi: 10.1128/JCM.00196-13. Epub 2013 Apr
17.

Detection of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus by a duplex droplet
digital PCR assay.

Kelley K(1), Cosman A, Belgrader P, Chapman B, Sullivan DC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson,
Mississippi, USA.

Health care-associated infections with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus (MRSA) contribute to significant hospitalization costs. We report here a
droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) assay, which is a next-generation emulsion-based
endpoint PCR assay for high-precision MRSA analysis. Reference cultures of MRSA, 
methicillin-susceptible S. aureus (MSSA), and confounders were included as
controls. Copan swabs were used to sample cultures and collect specimens for
analysis from patients at a large teaching hospital. Swab extraction and cell
lysis were accomplished using magnetic-driven agitation of silica beads.
Quantitative PCR (qPCR) (Roche Light Cycler 480) and ddPCR (Bio-Rad QX100 droplet
digital PCR system) assays were used to detect genes for the staphylococcal
protein SA0140 (SA) and the methicillin resistance (mecA) gene employing standard
TaqMan chemistries. Both qPCR and ddPCR assays correctly identified culture
controls for MRSA (76), MSSA (12), and confounder organisms (36) with 100%
sensitivity and specificity. Analysis of the clinical samples (211 negative and
186 positive) collected during a study of MRSA nasal carriage allowed direct
comparison of the qPCR and ddPCR assays to the Cepheid MRSA GeneXpert assay. A
total of 397 clinical samples were examined in this study. Cepheid MRSA GeneXpert
values were used to define negative and positive samples. Both the qPCR and ddPCR
assays were in good agreement with the reference assay. The sensitivities for the
qPCR and ddPCR assays were 96.8% (95% confidence interval [CI], 93.1 to 98.5%)
and 96.8% (95% CI, 93.1 to 98.5%), respectively. Both the qPCR and ddPCR assays
had specificities of 91.9% (95% CI, 87.5 to 94.9%) for qPCR and 91.0% (95% CI,
86.4 to 94.2%) for ddPCR technology.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.00196-13 
PMCID: PMC3697713
PMID: 23596244  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1147. BMC Genomics. 2013 Apr 10;14:236. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-236.

Transcriptional profiling of bud dormancy induction and release in oak by
next-generation sequencing.

Ueno S(1), Klopp C, Leplé JC, Derory J, Noirot C, Léger V, Prince E, Kremer A,
Plomion C, Le Provost G.

Author information: 
(1)Forestry and Forest Products Research Institute, Department of Forest
Genetics, Tree Genetics Laboratory, 1 Matsunosato, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8687
Japan.

BACKGROUND: In temperate regions, the time lag between vegetative bud burst and
bud set determines the duration of the growing season of trees (i.e. the duration
of wood biomass production). Dormancy, the period during which the plant is not
growing, allows trees to avoid cold injury resulting from exposure to low
temperatures. An understanding of the molecular machinery controlling the shift
between these two phenological states is of key importance in the context of
climatic change. The objective of this study was to identify genes upregulated
during endo- and ecodormancy, the two main stages of bud dormancy. Sessile oak is
a widely distributed European white oak species. A forcing test on young trees
was first carried out to identify the period most likely to correspond to these
two stages. Total RNA was then extracted from apical buds displaying endo- and
ecodormancy. This RNA was used for the generation of cDNA libraries, and in-depth
transcriptome characterization was performed with 454 FLX pyrosequencing
technology.
RESULTS: Pyrosequencing produced a total of 495,915 reads. The data were cleaned,
duplicated reads removed, and sequences were mapped onto the oak UniGene data.
Digital gene expression analysis was performed, with both R statistics and the
R-Bioconductor packages (edgeR and DESeq), on 6,471 contigs with read numbers ≥ 5
within any contigs. The number of sequences displaying significant differences in
expression level (read abundance) between endo- and ecodormancy conditions ranged
from 75 to 161, depending on the algorithm used. 13 genes displaying significant 
differences between conditions were selected for further analysis, and 11 of
these genes, including those for glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and dehydrin
xero2 (XERO2) were validated by quantitative PCR.
CONCLUSIONS: The identification and functional annotation of differentially
expressed genes involved in the "response to abscisic acid", "response to cold
stress" and "response to oxidative stress" categories constitutes a major step
towards characterization of the molecular network underlying vegetative bud
dormancy, an important life history trait of long-lived organisms.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-236 
PMCID: PMC3639946
PMID: 23575249  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1148. PLoS One. 2013;8(4):e55943. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0055943. Epub 2013 Apr 3.

Highly precise measurement of HIV DNA by droplet digital PCR.

Strain MC(1), Lada SM, Luong T, Rought SE, Gianella S, Terry VH, Spina CA, Woelk 
CH, Richman DD.

Author information: 
(1)University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California, United States of
America. mstrain@ucsd.edu

Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) provides
the most sensitive measurement of residual infection in patients on effective
combination antiretroviral therapy (cART). Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) has
recently been shown to provide highly accurate quantification of DNA copy number,
but its application to quantification of HIV DNA, or other equally rare targets, 
has not been reported. This paper demonstrates and analyzes the application of
ddPCR to measure the frequency of total HIV DNA (pol copies per million cells),
and episomal 2-LTR (long terminal repeat) circles in cells isolated from infected
patients. Analysis of over 300 clinical samples, including over 150 clinical
samples assayed in triplicate by ddPCR and by real-time PCR (qPCR), demonstrates 
a significant increase in precision, with an average 5-fold decrease in the
coefficient of variation of pol copy numbers and a >20-fold accuracy improvement 
for 2-LTR circles. Additional benefits of the ddPCR assay over qPCR include
absolute quantification without reliance on an external standard and relative
insensitivity to mismatches in primer and probe sequences. These features make
digital PCR an attractive alternative for measurement of HIV DNA in clinical
specimens. The improved sensitivity and precision of measurement of these rare
events should facilitate measurements to characterize the latent HIV reservoir
and interventions to eradicate it.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0055943 
PMCID: PMC3616050
PMID: 23573183  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1149. Clin Chem. 2013 Jun;59(6):892-902. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2013.206375. Epub 2013
Apr 9.

The digital MIQE guidelines: Minimum Information for Publication of Quantitative 
Digital PCR Experiments.

Huggett JF(1), Foy CA, Benes V, Emslie K, Garson JA, Haynes R, Hellemans J,
Kubista M, Mueller RD, Nolan T, Pfaffl MW, Shipley GL, Vandesompele J, Wittwer
CT, Bustin SA.

Author information: 
(1)LGC, Teddington, Middlesex, UK. jim.huggett@lgc.co.uk

There is growing interest in digital PCR (dPCR) because technological progress
makes it a practical and increasingly affordable technology. dPCR allows the
precise quantification of nucleic acids, facilitating the measurement of small
percentage differences and quantification of rare variants. dPCR may also be more
reproducible and less susceptible to inhibition than quantitative real-time PCR
(qPCR). Consequently, dPCR has the potential to have a substantial impact on
research as well as diagnostic applications. However, as with qPCR, the ability
to perform robust meaningful experiments requires careful design and adequate
controls. To assist independent evaluation of experimental data, comprehensive
disclosure of all relevant experimental details is required. To facilitate this
process we present the Minimum Information for Publication of Quantitative
Digital PCR Experiments guidelines. This report addresses known requirements for 
dPCR that have already been identified during this early stage of its development
and commercial implementation. Adoption of these guidelines by the scientific
community will help to standardize experimental protocols, maximize efficient
utilization of resources, and enhance the impact of this promising new
technology.

© 2013 American Association for Clinical Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2013.206375 
PMID: 23570709  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1150. Scand J Immunol. 2013 Jun;77(6):442-51. doi: 10.1111/sji.12049.

C-reactive protein triggers calcium signalling in human neutrophilic granulocytes
via FcγRIIa in an allele-specific way.

Aas V(1), Sand KL, Asheim HC, Benestad HB, Iversen JG.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, Oslo and Akershus University College of Applied
Sciences, Oslo, Norway. vigdis.aas@hioa.no

C-reactive protein (CRP) binds to Fcγ-receptors, FcγRIIa (CD32) with high
affinity and to FcγRIa (CD64) with low affinity. The binding to CD32 has been
shown to be allele specific, that is, it binds to R/R131 but not to H/H131.
Little is known about the cooperation of CRP and neutrophilic granulocytes (PMNs)
in inflammatory reactions. The purpose of the present study was to examine CRP
signalling in human PMNs, and whether this signalling is also allele specific.
Cytosolic calcium of PMN was measured in a single-cell digital imaging system.
Receptor expression and polymorphism were studied by real-time RT-PCR, flow
cytometry and standard PCR. C-reactive protein induced cytosolic calcium signals 
in PMNs from homozygote R/R131 donors, but not in PMNs from heterozygote R/H131
donors. However, after the heterozygote PMNs had been incubated with IFN-γ (100
U/ml) for 2 h, both the proportion of cells responding and the size of the
CRP-induced calcium signals increased. IFN-γ increased mRNA expression of CD64
about fivefold and surface protein expression of CD64 about fourfold. The calcium
signal elicited by CRP was augmented by PMN adhesion to fibronectin, but almost
totally abrogated by sphingosine kinase inhibitors. The signals were partly
dependent on calcium influx. In conclusion, calcium signalling instigated by CRP 
in human PMN is FcγRIIa allele specific, as R/R131 responded to CRP, whereas
R/H131 did not. However, increased expression of FcγRIa (CD64), stimulated by
IFN-γ, can augment calcium signalling by CRP in low-responders. This suggests
that the state of the PMNs, as well as the genetic origin, affect sensitivity for
CRP.

© 2013 The Authors. Scandinavian Journal of Immunology © 2013 Blackwell
Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/sji.12049 
PMID: 23551080  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1151. BMC Genomics. 2013 Mar 21;14:197. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-197.

Transcriptome-based discovery of pathways and genes related to resistance against
Fusarium head blight in wheat landrace Wangshuibai.

Xiao J(1), Jin X, Jia X, Wang H, Cao A, Zhao W, Pei H, Xue Z, He L, Chen Q, Wang 
X.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Crop Genetics and Germplasm Enhancement, Cytogenetics 
Institute, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095, China.

BACKGROUND: Fusarium head blight (FHB), caused mainly by Fusarium graminearum
(Fg) Schwabe (teleomorph: Gibberellazeae Schwble), brings serious damage to wheat
production. Chinese wheat landrace Wangshuibai is one of the most important
resistance sources in the world. The knowledge of mechanism underlying its
resistance to FHB is still limited.
RESULTS: To get an overview of transcriptome characteristics of Wangshuibai
during infection by Fg, a high-throughput RNA sequencing based on next generation
sequencing (NGS) technology (Illumina) were performed. Totally, 165,499 unigenes 
were generated and assigned to known protein databases including NCBI
non-redundant protein database (nr) (82,721, 50.0%), Gene Ontology (GO) (38,184, 
23.1%), Swiss-Prot (50,702, 30.6%), Clusters of orthologous groups (COG) (51,566,
31.2%) and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) (30,657, 18.5%), as
determined by Blastx search. With another NGS based platform, a digital gene
expression (DGE) system, gene expression in Wangshuibai and its FHB susceptible
mutant NAUH117 was profiled and compared at two infection stages by inoculation
of Fg at 24 and 48 hour, with the aim of identifying genes involved in FHB
resistance.
CONCLUSION: Pathogen-related proteins such as PR5, PR14 and ABC transporter and
JA signaling pathway were crucial for FHB resistance, especially that mediated by
Fhb1. ET pathway and ROS/NO pathway were not activated in Wangshuibai and may be 
not pivotal in defense to FHB. Consistent with the fact that in NAUH117 there
presented a chromosome fragment deletion, which led to its increased FHB
susceptibility, in Wangshuibai, twenty out of eighty-nine genes showed changed
expression patterns upon the infection of Fg. The up-regulation of eight of them 
was confirmed by qRT-PCR, revealing they may be candidate genes for Fhb1 and need
further functional analysis to confirm their roles in FHB resistance.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-197 
PMCID: PMC3616903
PMID: 23514540  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1152. PLoS One. 2013;8(3):e58177. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0058177. Epub 2013 Mar 5.

Methods for applying accurate digital PCR analysis on low copy DNA samples.

Whale AS(1), Cowen S, Foy CA, Huggett JF.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Cell Biology Team, LGC Ltd, Teddington, United Kingdom.
alexandra.whale@lgcgroup.com

Digital PCR (dPCR) is a highly accurate molecular approach, capable of precise
measurements, offering a number of unique opportunities. However, in its current 
format dPCR can be limited by the amount of sample that can be analysed and
consequently additional considerations such as performing multiplex reactions or 
pre-amplification can be considered. This study investigated the impact of
duplexing and pre-amplification on dPCR analysis by using three different assays 
targeting a model template (a portion of the Arabidopsis thaliana alcohol
dehydrogenase gene). We also investigated the impact of different template types 
(linearised plasmid clone and more complex genomic DNA) on measurement precision 
using dPCR. We were able to demonstrate that duplex dPCR can provide a more
precise measurement than uniplex dPCR, while applying pre-amplification or
varying template type can significantly decrease the precision of dPCR.
Furthermore, we also demonstrate that the pre-amplification step can introduce
measurement bias that is not consistent between experiments for a sample or assay
and so could not be compensated for during the analysis of this data set. We also
describe a model for estimating the prevalence of molecular dropout and identify 
this as a source of dPCR imprecision. Our data have demonstrated that the
precision afforded by dPCR at low sample concentration can exceed that of the
same template post pre-amplification thereby negating the need for this
additional step. Our findings also highlight the technical differences between
different templates types containing the same sequence that must be considered if
plasmid DNA is to be used to assess or control for more complex templates like
genomic DNA.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0058177 
PMCID: PMC3589384
PMID: 23472156  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1153. PLoS One. 2013;8(2):e57238. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0057238. Epub 2013 Feb 27.

Digital PCR to detect and quantify heteroresistance in drug resistant
Mycobacterium tuberculosis.

Pholwat S(1), Stroup S, Foongladda S, Houpt E.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases and International Health, Department of
Medicine, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, United States of
America.

Drug resistance in Mycobacterium tuberculosis presents an enormous public health 
threat. It is typically defined as >1% of drug resistant colonies using the agar 
proportion method. Detecting small numbers of drug resistant Tb in a population, 
also known as heteroresistance, is challenging with current methodologies. Here
we have utilized digital PCR to detect heteroresistance within M. tuberculosis
populations with excellent accuracy versus the agar proportion method. We
designed dual TaqMan-MGB probes to detect wild-type and mutant sequences of katG 
(315), rpoB (531), gyrA (94,95) and rrs (1401), genes that associate with
resistance to isoniazid, rifampin, fluoroquinolone, and aminoglycoside
respectively. We generated heteroresistant mixtures of susceptible and
extensively drug resistant Tb, followed by DNA extraction and digital PCR.
Digital PCR yielded a close approximation to agar proportion's percentages of
resistant colonies, and yielded 100% concordance with agar proportion's
susceptible/resistant results. Indeed, the digital PCR method was able to
identify mutant sequence in mixtures containing as little as 1000∶1
susceptible:resistant Tb. By contrast, real-time PCR or PCR followed by Sanger
sequencing were less sensitive and had little resolution to detect
heteroresistance, requiring fully 1∶1 or 10∶1 susceptible:resistant ratios in
order to detect resistance. Our assay can also work in sputum so long as
sufficient quantities of Tb are present (>1000 cfu/ml). This work demonstrates
the utility of digital PCR to detect and quantify heteroresistance in drug
resistant Tb, which may be useful to inform treatment decisions faster than agar 
proportion.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0057238 
PMCID: PMC3584134
PMID: 23468945  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1154. J Vis Exp. 2013 Feb 13;(72). pii: 4393. doi: 10.3791/4393.

RNA-seq analysis of transcriptomes in thrombin-treated and control human
pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells.

Cheranova D(1), Gibson M, Chaudhary S, Zhang LQ, Heruth DP, Grigoryev DN, Ye SQ.

Author information: 
(1)Children's Mercy Hospital and Clinics, School of Medicine, University of
Missouri-Kansas City, KS, USA.

The characterization of gene expression in cells via measurement of mRNA levels
is a useful tool in determining how the transcriptional machinery of the cell is 
affected by external signals (e.g. drug treatment), or how cells differ between a
healthy state and a diseased state. With the advent and continuous refinement of 
next-generation DNA sequencing technology, RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) has become an
increasingly popular method of transcriptome analysis to catalog all species of
transcripts, to determine the transcriptional structure of all expressed genes
and to quantify the changing expression levels of the total set of transcripts in
a given cell, tissue or organism. RNA-seq is gradually replacing DNA microarrays 
as a preferred method for transcriptome analysis because it has the advantages of
profiling a complete transcriptome, providing a digital type datum (copy number
of any transcript) and not relying on any known genomic sequence. Here, we
present a complete and detailed protocol to apply RNA-seq to profile
transcriptomes in human pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells with or without
thrombin treatment. This protocol is based on our recent published study entitled
"RNA-seq Reveals Novel Transcriptome of Genes and Their Isoforms in Human
Pulmonary Microvascular Endothelial Cells Treated with Thrombin," in which we
successfully performed the first complete transcriptome analysis of human
pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells treated with thrombin using RNA-seq. It
yielded unprecedented resources for further experimentation to gain insights into
molecular mechanisms underlying thrombin-mediated endothelial dysfunction in the 
pathogenesis of inflammatory conditions, cancer, diabetes, and coronary heart
disease, and provides potential new leads for therapeutic targets to those
diseases. The descriptive text of this protocol is divided into four parts. The
first part describes the treatment of human pulmonary microvascular endothelial
cells with thrombin and RNA isolation, quality analysis and quantification. The
second part describes library construction and sequencing. The third part
describes the data analysis. The fourth part describes an RT-PCR validation
assay. Representative results of several key steps are displayed. Useful tips or 
precautions to boost success in key steps are provided in the Discussion section.
Although this protocol uses human pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells
treated with thrombin, it can be generalized to profile transcriptomes in both
mammalian and non-mammalian cells and in tissues treated with different stimuli
or inhibitors, or to compare transcriptomes in cells or tissues between a healthy
state and a disease state.

DOI: 10.3791/4393 
PMCID: PMC3601203
PMID: 23426025  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1155. PLoS One. 2013;8(2):e55496. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0055496. Epub 2013 Feb 6.

Transcriptome profiling of the goose (Anser cygnoides) ovaries identify laying
and broodiness phenotypes.

Xu Q(1), Zhao W, Chen Y, Tong Y, Rong G, Huang Z, Zhang Y, Chang G, Wu X, Chen G.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Animal Genetics & Breeding and Molecular Design of Jiangsu
Province, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: The geese have strong broodiness and poor egg performance. These
characteristics are the key issues that hinder the goose industry development.
Yet little is known about the mechanisms responsible for follicle development due
to lack of genomic resources. Hence, studies based on high-throughput sequencing 
technologies are needed to produce a comprehensive and integrated genomic
resource and to better understand the biological mechanisms of goose follicle
development.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: In this study, we performed de novo transcriptome
assembly and gene expression analysis using short-read sequencing technology
(Illumina). We obtained 67,315,996 short reads of 100 bp, which were assembled
into 130,514 unique sequences by Trinity strategy (mean size = 753 bp). Based on 
BLAST results with known proteins, these analyses identified 52,642 sequences
with a cut-off E-value above 10(-5). Assembled sequences were annotated with gene
descriptions, gene ontology and clusters of orthologous group terms. In addition,
we investigated the transcription changes during the goose laying/broodiness
period using a tag-based digital gene expression (DGE) system. We obtained a
sequencing depth of over 4.2 million tags per sample and identified a large
number of genes associated with follicle development and reproductive biology
including cholesterol side-chain cleavage enzyme gene and dopamine
beta-hydroxylas gene. We confirm the altered expression levels of the two genes
using quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR).
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: The obtained goose transcriptome and DGE profiling data
provide comprehensive gene expression information at the transcriptional level
that could promote better understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying
follicle development and productivity.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0055496 
PMCID: PMC3566205
PMID: 23405160  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1156. Clin Chem. 2013 May;59(5):815-23. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2012.193409. Epub 2013
Feb 12.

Multiplex picoliter-droplet digital PCR for quantitative assessment of DNA
integrity in clinical samples.

Didelot A(1), Kotsopoulos SK, Lupo A, Pekin D, Li X, Atochin I, Srinivasan P,
Zhong Q, Olson J, Link DR, Laurent-Puig P, Blons H, Hutchison JB, Taly V.

Author information: 
(1)Université Paris Sorbonne Cité, INSERM UMR-S775, Paris, France.

BACKGROUND: Assessment of DNA integrity and quantity remains a bottleneck for
high-throughput molecular genotyping technologies, including next-generation
sequencing. In particular, DNA extracted from paraffin-embedded tissues, a major 
potential source of tumor DNA, varies widely in quality, leading to unpredictable
sequencing data. We describe a picoliter droplet-based digital PCR method that
enables simultaneous detection of DNA integrity and the quantity of amplifiable
DNA.
METHODS: Using a multiplex assay, we detected 4 different target lengths (78,
159, 197, and 550 bp). Assays were validated with human genomic DNA fragmented to
sizes of 170 bp to 3000 bp. The technique was validated with DNA quantities as
low as 1 ng. We evaluated 12 DNA samples extracted from paraffin-embedded lung
adenocarcinoma tissues.
RESULTS: One sample contained no amplifiable DNA. The fractions of amplifiable
DNA for the 11 other samples were between 0.05% and 10.1% for 78-bp fragments and
≤1% for longer fragments. Four samples were chosen for enrichment and
next-generation sequencing. The quality of the sequencing data was in agreement
with the results of the DNA-integrity test. Specifically, DNA with low integrity 
yielded sequencing results with lower levels of coverage and uniformity and had
higher levels of false-positive variants.
CONCLUSIONS: The development of DNA-quality assays will enable researchers to
downselect samples or process more DNA to achieve reliable genome sequencing with
the highest possible efficiency of cost and effort, as well as minimize the waste
of precious samples.

© 2013 American Association for Clinical Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2012.193409 
PMID: 23403697  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1157. BMC Genomics. 2013 Feb 12;14:97. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-97.

Transcriptomic analysis of differentially expressed genes during anther
development in genetic male sterile and wild type cotton by digital
gene-expression profiling.

Wei M(1), Song M, Fan S, Yu S.

Author information: 
(1)College of Agriculture, Northwest A&F University, Yangling 712100 Shaanxi, PR 
China.

BACKGROUND: Cotton (Gossypium hirsutum) anther development involves a diverse
range of gene interactions between sporophytic and gametophytic tissues. However,
only a small number of genes are known to be specifically involved in this
developmental process and the molecular mechanism of the genetic male sterility
(GMS) is still poorly understand. To fully explore the global gene expression
during cotton anther development and identify genes related to male sterility, a 
digital gene expression (DGE) analysis was adopted.
RESULTS: Six DGE libraries were constructed from the cotton anthers of the wild
type (WT) and GMS mutant (in the WT background) in three stages of anther
development, resulting in 21,503 to 37,352 genes detected in WT and GMS mutant
anthers. Compared with the fertile isogenic WT, 9,595 (30% of the expressed
genes), 10,407 (25%), and 3,139 (10%) genes were differentially expressed at the 
meiosis, tetrad, and uninucleate microspore stages of GMS mutant anthers,
respectively. Using both DGE experiments and real-time quantitative RT-PCR, the
expression of many key genes required for anther development were suppressed in
the meiosis stage and the uninucleate microspore stage in anthers of the mutant, 
but these genes were activated in the tetrad stage of anthers in the mutant.
These genes were associated predominantly with hormone synthesis, sucrose and
starch metabolism, the pentose phosphate pathway, glycolysis, flavonoid
metabolism, and histone protein synthesis. In addition, several genes that
participate in DNA methylation, cell wall loosening, programmed cell death, and
reactive oxygen species generation/scavenging were activated during the three
anther developmental stages in the mutant.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared to the same anther developmental stage of the WT, many key 
genes involved in various aspects of anther development show a reverse gene
expression pattern in the GMS mutant, which indicates that diverse gene
regulation pathways are involved in the GMS mutant anther development. These
findings provide the first insights into the mechanism that leads to genetic male
sterility in cotton and contributes to a better understanding of the regulatory
network involved in anther development in cotton.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-97 
PMCID: PMC3599889
PMID: 23402279  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1158. Nat Biotechnol. 2013 May;31(5):448-52. doi: 10.1038/nbt.2510. Epub 2013 Feb 10.

Synthetic circuits integrating logic and memory in living cells.

Siuti P(1), Yazbek J, Lu TK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Biotechnol. 2013 May;31(5):413-5.

Logic and memory are essential functions of circuits that generate complex,
state-dependent responses. Here we describe a strategy for efficiently assembling
synthetic genetic circuits that use recombinases to implement Boolean logic
functions with stable DNA-encoded memory of events. Application of this strategy 
allowed us to create all 16 two-input Boolean logic functions in living
Escherichia coli cells without requiring cascades comprising multiple logic
gates. We demonstrate long-term maintenance of memory for at least 90 cell
generations and the ability to interrogate the states of these synthetic devices 
with fluorescent reporters and PCR. Using this approach we created two-bit
digital-to-analog converters, which should be useful in biotechnology
applications for encoding multiple stable gene expression outputs using transient
inputs of inducers. We envision that this integrated logic and memory system will
enable the implementation of complex cellular state machines, behaviors and
pathways for therapeutic, diagnostic and basic science applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nbt.2510 
PMID: 23396014  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1159. Purinergic Signal. 2013 Sep;9(3):383-93. doi: 10.1007/s11302-013-9356-5. Epub
2013 Feb 6.

Distribution of purinergic P2X receptors in the equine digit, cervical spinal
cord and dorsal root ganglia.

Zamboulis DE(1), Senior JM, Clegg PD, Gallagher JA, Carter SD, Milner PI.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, Department of Musculoskeletal Biology,
Institute of Ageing and Chronic Disease, University of Liverpool, Leahurst
Campus, Chester High Road, Neston, Cheshire, CH64 7TE, UK.

Purinergic pathways are considered important in pain transmission, and P2X
receptors are a key part of this system which has received little attention in
the horse. The aim of this study was to identify and characterise the
distribution of P2X receptor subtypes in the equine digit and associated
vasculature and nervous tissue, including peripheral nerves, dorsal root ganglia 
and cervical spinal cord, using PCR, Western blot analysis and
immunohistochemistry. mRNA signal for most of the tested P2X receptor subunits
(P2X1-5, 7) was detected in all sampled equine tissues, whereas P2X6 receptor
subunit was predominantly expressed in the dorsal root ganglia and spinal cord.
Western blot analysis validated the specificity of P2X1-3, 7 antibodies, and
these were used in immunohistochemistry studies. P2X1-3, 7 receptor subunits were
found in smooth muscle cells in the palmar digital artery and vein with the
exception of the P2X3 subunit that was present only in the vein. However,
endothelial cells in the palmar digital artery and vein were positive only for
P2X2 and P2X3 receptor subunits. Neurons and nerve fibres in the peripheral and
central nervous system were positive for P2X1-3 receptor subunits, whereas glial 
cells were positive for P2X7 and P2X1 and 2 receptor subunits. This previously
unreported distribution of P2X subtypes may suggest important tissue specific
roles in physiological and pathological processes.

DOI: 10.1007/s11302-013-9356-5 
PMCID: PMC3757141
PMID: 23381684  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1160. Sci Justice. 2013 Mar;53(1):14-22. doi: 10.1016/j.scijus.2012.03.007. Epub 2012
Apr 15.

Highly specific mRNA biomarkers for the identification of vaginal secretions in
sexual assault investigations.

Hanson EK(1), Ballantyne J.

Author information: 
(1)National Center for Forensic Science, Orlando, FL 32816-2367, USA.

The inability to definitively determine the tissue source of origin of
forensically relevant biological fluids could result in a failure to provide
crucial information necessary to the investigation and prosecution of the case.
For example, in instances of sexual assault with a foreign object or digital
penetration, the identification of vaginal secretions (VS) transferred to such
objects or the perpetrators might be critical in establishing the circumstances
of the assault. Conventional serological and immunological methods for body fluid
identification can confirm the presence of human blood and semen. However,
currently none of the routinely used biochemical tests can definitively identify 
the presence of human saliva or VS. It has been demonstrated that mRNA (or miRNA)
profiling of body fluid stains can provide a degree of identification specificity
of tissue and body fluids heretofore unattainable by conventional means. Early
promising VS candidate RNA biomarkers, however, failed to exhibit the required
degree of specificity or sensitivity and thus, at present, it is not possible for
the forensic scientist to definitively identify VS using molecular genetics
techniques. The aim of this work was to find novel highly specific RNA biomarkers
for the identification of VS. Whole transcriptome profiling (RNA-Seq) of vaginal 
swab samples from different donors resulted in the identification of a number of 
putative VS-specific mRNA candidates. After detailed evaluation of >200
candidates from the tens of thousands of mRNA species found in VS, six promising 
candidates were identified. From these, two gene transcripts, namely CYP2B7P1 and
MYOZ1, consistently demonstrated high specificity and sensitivity for VS when
used in a qualitative capillary electrophoresis-based assay. Importantly these
two biomarkers are able to differentiate between VS and other body fluids
containing significant numbers of epithelia, particularly saliva and skin.
Significantly, CYP2B7P1 is exceedingly specific with no detectable cross
reactivity with other forensically relevant body fluids/tissues noted to date.
The other four putatively specific biomarkers are expressed at higher levels in
VS compared with saliva and will be more suitable for use with a quantitative
(i.e. qRT-PCR) assay format.

Copyright © 2012 Forensic Science Society. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scijus.2012.03.007 
PMID: 23380057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1161. Clin Chem. 2013 Jun;59(6):991-4. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2012.197855. Epub 2013 Jan
28.

Droplet digital PCR measurement of HER2 copy number alteration in formalin-fixed 
paraffin-embedded breast carcinoma tissue.

Belgrader P(1), Tanner SC, Regan JF, Koehler R, Hindson BJ, Brown AS.

Author information: 
(1)Digital Biology Center, Bio-Rad Laboratories, Pleasanton, CA 94566, USA.
phil_belgrader@bio-rad.com

BACKGROUND: Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) testing is routinely 
performed by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and/or fluorescence in situ hybridization
(FISH) analyses for all new cases of invasive breast carcinoma. IHC is easier to 
perform, but analysis can be subjective and variable. FISH offers better
diagnostic accuracy and added confidence, particularly when it is used to
supplement weak IHC signals, but it is more labor intensive and costly than IHC. 
We examined the performance of droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) as a more precise and 
less subjective alternative for quantifying HER2 DNA amplification.
METHODS: Thirty-nine cases of invasive breast carcinoma containing ≥30% tumor
were classified as positive or negative for HER2 by IHC, FISH, or both. DNA
templates for these cases were prepared from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded
(FFPE) tissues to determine the HER2 copy number by ddPCR. ddPCR involved
emulsifying hydrolysis probe-based PCR reaction mixtures containing the ERBB2
[v-erb-b2 erythroblastic leukemia viral oncogene homolog 2, neuro/glioblastoma
derived oncogene homolog (avian); also known as HER2] gene and chromosome 17
centromere assays into nanoliter-sized droplets for thermal cycling and analysis.
RESULTS: ddPCR distinguished, through differences in the level of HER2
amplification, the 10 HER2-positive samples from the 29 HER2-negative samples
with 100% concordance to HER2 status obtained by FISH and IHC analysis. ddPCR
results agreed with the FISH results for the 6 cases that were equivocal by IHC
analyses, confirming 2 of these samples as positive for HER2 and the other 4 as
negative.
CONCLUSIONS: ddPCR can be used as a molecular-analysis tool to precisely measure 
copy number alterations in FFPE samples of heterogeneous breast tumor tissue.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2012.197855 
PMID: 23358413  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1162. BMC Genomics. 2013 Jan 22;14:45. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-45.

Differential gene expression in the endometrium on gestation day 12 provides
insight into sow prolificacy.

Zhang H(1), Wang S, Liu M, Zhang A, Wu Z, Zhang Z, Li J.

Author information: 
(1)Guangdong Provincial Key Lab of Agroanimal Genomics and Molecular Breeding,
College of Animal Science, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou,
Guangdong, 510642, China.

BACKGROUND: Erhualian pigs, one of Chinese Taihu pig breeds, are known to have
the largest recorded litter size in the world. A lower prenatal death rate is the
major contributing factor to the prolificacy of Taihu pigs. Cross-breeding
experiments have demonstrated that Taihu sows exhibit a strong maternal effect
and that their large litter sizes are mainly caused by maternal genes. The growth
and development of porcine embryos on gestation day (GD) 12 are dependent on
histotroph secreted by endometrium. Embryonic loss of Taihu pigs on GD12 is lower
than that of Western pigs. Here, endometrial samples were collected from pregnant
Erhualian sows (parity 3) and Landrace × Large White (LL) sows (parity 3) on
GD12. Digital gene expression profiling (DGE) was used to measure the gene
expression in the endometrium of the two breeds.
RESULTS: A total of 13,612 genes were differentially expressed between the two
breeds (P < 0.001, FDR < 0.001). Gene Ontology (GO) analysis showed that the
differential genes involved in reproduction and growth. Pathway analysis revealed
that the differentially expressed genes significantly enriched in 24 KEGG
pathways. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR confirmed the differential expression of 
eight genes. Analyses of the differentially expressed genes suggested possible
reasons for the difference in embryonic survival ratio between the two breeds.
Specifically, these findings point to a higher ratio of PGE2:PGF2α in the
endometrium of Erhualian pigs, which facilitates the establishment and
maintenance of pregnancy. We also suggest that the differences in the uterine
environment lead to higher uterine capacity in Erhualian pigs.
CONCLUSIONS: The DGE expression profiles of Erhualian and LL endometrium
demonstrated differential expression of genes. Our results will increase
understanding of the molecular mechanisms of the low rate of embryonic loss in
Chinese Taihu pigs, facilitate the identification of major genes that affect
litter size, and be valuable for porcine transcriptomic studies.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-45 
PMCID: PMC3610143
PMID: 23339594  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1163. Lab Chip. 2013 Mar 7;13(5):955-61. doi: 10.1039/c2lc40975e. Epub 2013 Jan 21.

Label-free DNA quantification via a 'pipette, aggregate and blot' (PAB) approach 
with magnetic silica particles on filter paper.

Li J(1), Liu Q, Alsamarri H, Lounsbury JA, Haversitick DM, Landers JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia
22904, USA.

Reliable measurement of DNA concentration is essential for a broad range of
applications in biology and molecular biology, and for many of these, quantifying
the nucleic acid content is inextricably linked to obtaining optimal results. In 
its most simplistic form, quantitative analysis of nucleic acids can be
accomplished by UV-Vis absorbance and, in more sophisticated format, by
fluorimetry. A recently reported new concept, the 'pinwheel assay', involves a
label-free approach for quantifying DNA through aggregation of paramagnetic beads
in a rotating magnetic field. Here, we describe a simplified version of that
assay adapted for execution using only a pipet and filter paper. The 'pipette,
aggregate, and blot' (PAB) approach allows DNA to induce bead aggregation in a
pipette tip through exposure to a magnetic field, followed by dispensing
(blotting) onto filter paper. The filter paper immortalises the extent of
aggregation, and digital images of the immortalized bead conformation, acquired
with either a document scanner or a cell phone camera, allows for DNA
quantification using a noncomplex algorithm. Human genomic DNA samples extracted 
from blood are quantified with the PAB approach and the results utilized to
define the volume of sample used in a PCR reaction that is sensitive to input
mass of template DNA. Integrating the PAB assay with paper-based DNA extraction
and detection modalities has the potential to yield 'DNA quant-on-paper' devices 
that may be useful for point-of-care testing.

DOI: 10.1039/c2lc40975e 
PMID: 23338039  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1164. Anal Chem. 2013 Feb 5;85(3):1932-9. doi: 10.1021/ac303426b. Epub 2013 Jan 18.

Direct detection of bacterial genomic DNA at sub-femtomolar concentrations using 
single molecule arrays.

Song L(1), Shan D, Zhao M, Pink BA, Minnehan KA, York L, Gardel M, Sullivan S,
Phillips AF, Hayman RB, Walt DR, Duffy DC.

Author information: 
(1)Quanterix Corporation, 113 Hartwell Avenue, Lexington, Massachusetts 02421,
United States.

We report a method for the sensitive measurement of genomic DNA based on the
direct detection of single molecules of DNA in arrays of femtoliter wells. The
method begins by generating short fragments of DNA from large, double-stranded
molecules of genomic DNA using either restriction enzymes or sonication.
Single-stranded fragments are then generated by melting the duplex, and these
fragments are hybridized to complementary biotinylated detection probes and
capture probes on paramagnetic beads. The resulting DNA complexes are then
labeled with an enzyme (streptavidin-β-galactosidase), and single enzymes
associated with these complexes on beads are detected in single molecule arrays
(Simoa). DNA concentration is quantified by determining the average number of
enzymes per bead via Poisson statistics (digital) or the average bead intensity
(analog). The Simoa DNA assay was used to detect genomic DNA purified from S.
aureus with an average limit of detection (LOD) of 0.07 fM, or 2100 DNA molecules
per 50 μL sample. We used this assay to detect S. aureus spiked into (a) whole
blood, with an average LOD of 1100 bacteria per 25 μL sample (0.074 fM), and (b) 
water from the Charles River, with an LOD of 1300 bacteria per 50 μL sample
(0.042 fM). Bacteria were detected in river water without prior purification of
DNA. The Simoa DNA assay, which directly detects target DNA molecules without
molecular replication, is an attractive alternative to existing sensitive DNA
detection technologies that rely on amplification using polymerases, such as the 
polymerase chain reaction (PCR).

DOI: 10.1021/ac303426b 
PMID: 23331316  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1165. Methods Mol Biol. 2013;949:423-31. doi: 10.1007/978-1-62703-134-9_27.

Integrated Fluidic Circuits (IFCs) for digital PCR.

Ramakrishnan R(1), Qin J, Jones RC, Weaver LS.

Author information: 
(1)Fluidigm Corporation, South San Francisco, CA, USA.
ramesh.ramakrishnan@fluidigm.com

The Fluidigm Digital Array IFC is a nanofluidic biochip where digital PCR
reactions can be performed with isolated individual DNA template molecules. This 
chip is part of a family of integrated fluidic circuits (IFC) and contains a
network of fluid lines, NanoFlex™ valves and chambers. NanoFlex™ valves are made 
of an elastomeric material that deflects under pressure to create a tight seal
and are used to regulate the flow of liquids in the IFC. Digital Arrays have
enabled a different approach to digital PCR, by partitioning DNA molecules
instead of diluting them. Single DNA molecules are randomly distributed into
nanoliter volume reaction chambers and then PCR amplified in the presence of a
fluorophore-containing probe. Positive fluorescent signal indicates the presence 
of a DNA molecule in a reaction chamber, while negative chambers are blank. IFC
technology enables the delivery of very precise volumes of solutions in a simple,
fast procedure, utilizing a minimum of sample and assay reagents. The development
of the IFC technology and the Digital Array chip has revolutionized the field of 
biology, and has been utilized in gene copy number studies, absolute quantitation
(molecule counting) of genomic DNA and cDNA, rare mutation detection, and digital
haplotyping.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-62703-134-9_27 
PMID: 23329458  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1166. BMC Genomics. 2013 Jan 16;14:26. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-26.

Transcriptome profile analysis of young floral buds of fertile and sterile plants
from the self-pollinated offspring of the hybrid between novel restorer line NR1 
and Nsa CMS line in Brassica napus.

Yan X(1), Dong C, Yu J, Liu W, Jiang C, Liu J, Hu Q, Fang X, Wei W.

Author information: 
(1)Oil Crops Research Institute of the Chinese Academy of Agricultural
Sciences/Key Laboratory of Biology and Genetic Improvement of Oil Crops, Ministry
of Agriculture, Wuhan, China. whwei@oilcrops.cn

BACKGROUND: The fertile and sterile plants were derived from the self-pollinated 
offspring of the F1 hybrid between the novel restorer line NR1 and the Nsa CMS
line in Brassica napus. To elucidate gene expression and regulation caused by the
A and C subgenomes of B. napus, as well as the alien chromosome and cytoplasm
from Sinapis arvensis during the development of young floral buds, we performed a
genome-wide high-throughput transcriptomic sequencing for young floral buds of
sterile and fertile plants.
RESULTS: In this study, equal amounts of total RNAs taken from young floral buds 
of sterile and fertile plants were sequenced using the Illumina/Solexa platform. 
After filtered out low quality data, a total of 2,760,574 and 2,714,441 clean
tags were remained in the two libraries, from which 242,163 (Ste) and 253,507
(Fer) distinct tags were obtained. All distinct sequencing tags were annotated
using all possible CATG+17-nt sequences of the genome and transcriptome of
Brassica rapa and those of Brassica oleracea as the reference sequences,
respectively. In total, 3231 genes of B. rapa and 3371 genes of B. oleracea were 
detected with significant differential expression levels. GO and pathway-based
analyses were performed to determine and further to understand the biological
functions of those differentially expressed genes (DEGs). In addition, there were
1089 specially expressed unknown tags in Fer, which were neither mapped to B.
oleracea nor to B. rapa, and these unique tags were presumed to arise basically
from the added alien chromosome of S. arvensis. Fifteen genes were randomly
selected and their expression levels were confirmed by quantitative RT-PCR, and
fourteen of them showed consistent expression patterns with the digital gene
expression (DGE) data.
CONCLUSIONS: A number of genes were differentially expressed between the young
floral buds of sterile and fertile plants. Some of these genes may be candidates 
for future research on CMS in Nsa line, fertility restoration and improved
agronomic traits in NR1 line. Further study of the unknown tags which were
specifically expressed in Fer will help to explore desirable agronomic traits
from wild species.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-14-26 
PMCID: PMC3556089
PMID: 23324545  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1167. J Mol Diagn. 2013 Mar;15(2):177-85. doi: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2012.09.007. Epub 2013 
Jan 12.

Standard reference material 2366 for measurement of human cytomegalovirus DNA.

Haynes RJ(1), Kline MC, Toman B, Scott C, Wallace P, Butler JM, Holden MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Applied Genetics Group, Biomolecular Measurement Division, Gaithersburg,
Maryland 20899, USA. ross.haynes@nist.gov

Human cytomegalovirus (CMV), classified as human herpesvirus 5, is ubiquitous in 
human populations. Infection generally causes little illness in healthy
individuals, but can cause life-threatening disease in those who are
immunocompromised or in newborns through complications arising from congenital
CMV infection. An important aspect in diagnosis and treatment is to track
circulating viral load with molecular methods, particularly with quantitative
PCR. Standardization is vital, because of interlaboratory variability (due in
part to the variety of assays and calibrants). Toward that end, the U.S. National
Institute of Standards and Technology produced a Standard Reference Material 2366
appropriate for establishing metrological traceability of assay calibrants. This 
standard is composed of CMV DNA (Towne(Δ147) bacterial artificial chromosome
DNA). Regions of the CMV DNA that are commonly used as targets for PCR assays
were sequenced. Digital PCR was used to quantify the DNA, with concentration
expressed as copies per microliter. The materials were tested for homogeneity and
stability. An interlaboratory study was conducted by Quality Control for
Molecular Diagnostics (Glasgow, UK), in which one component of SRM 2366 was
included for analysis by participants in a CMV external quality assessment and
proficiency testing program.

Copyright © 2013 American Society for Investigative Pathology and the Association
for Molecular Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2012.09.007 
PMID: 23321018  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1168. Reprod Biol Endocrinol. 2013 Jan 15;11:3. doi: 10.1186/1477-7827-11-3.

Changes in the transcriptome of morula-stage bovine embryos caused by heat shock:
relationship to developmental acquisition of thermotolerance.

Sakatani M(1), Bonilla L, Dobbs KB, Block J, Ozawa M, Shanker S, Yao J, Hansen
PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Kyushu-Okinawa Agricultural Research Center, National Agriculture and Food
Research Organization, Kumamoto 861-1192, Japan.

BACKGROUND: While initially sensitive to heat shock, the bovine embryo gains
thermal resistance as it progresses through development so that physiological
heat shock has little effect on development to the blastocyst stage by Day 5
after insemination. Here, experiments using 3' tag digital gene expression
(3'DGE) and real-time PCR were conducted to determine changes in the
transcriptome of morula-stage bovine embryos in response to heat shock (40
degrees C for 8 h) that could be associated with thermotolerance.
RESULTS: Using 3'DGE, expression of 173 genes were modified by heat shock, with
94 genes upregulated by heat shock and 79 genes downregulated by heat shock. A
total of 38 differentially-regulated genes were associated with the ubiquitin
protein, UBC. Heat shock increased expression of one heat shock protein gene,
HSPB11, and one heat shock protein binding protein, HSPBP1, tended to increase
expression of HSPA1A and HSPB1, but did not affect expression of 64 other genes
encoding heat shock proteins, heat shock transcription factors or proteins
interacting with heat shock proteins. Moreover, heat shock increased expression
of five genes associated with oxidative stress (AKR7A2, CBR1, GGH, GSTA4, and
MAP2K5), decreased expression of HIF3A, but did not affect expression of 42 other
genes related to free radical metabolism. Heat shock also had little effect on
genes involved in embryonic development. Effects of heat shock for 2, 4 and 8 h
on selected heat shock protein and antioxidant genes were also evaluated by
real-time PCR. Heat shock increased steady-state amounts of mRNA for HSPA1A
(P<0.05) and tended to increase expression of HSP90AA1 (P<0.07) but had no effect
on expression of SOD1 or CAT.
CONCLUSIONS: Changes in the transcriptome of the heat-shocked bovine morula
indicate that the embryo is largely resistant to effects of heat shock. As a
result, transcription of genes involved in thermal protection is muted and there 
is little disruption of gene networks involved in embryonic development. It is
likely that the increased resistance of morula-stage embryos to heat shock as
compared to embryos at earlier stages of development is due in part to
developmental acquisition of mechanisms to prevent accumulation of denatured
proteins and free radical damage.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7827-11-3 
PMCID: PMC3583805
PMID: 23320502  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1169. Curr Opin HIV AIDS. 2013 Mar;8(2):106-10. doi: 10.1097/COH.0b013e32835d811b.

New assays for monitoring residual HIV burden in effectively treated individuals.

Strain MC(1), Richman DD.

Author information: 
(1)University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093-0679, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Measurements of HIV burden have relied upon quantification of 
viral nucleic acids by real-time PCR (qPCR). To develop and test strategies for
eradication, new methods are needed to better characterize residual cellular
reservoirs in patients on suppressive antiretroviral therapy (ART). This review
summarizes recent advances that may lead to clinically useful tests with improved
sensitivity, reproducibility and throughput.
RECENT FINDINGS: HIV DNA remains the most sensitive measure of residual
infection, but its low levels are difficult to differentiate from assay noise by 
qPCR. Digital PCR has begun to improve the precision of existing real-time
assays, but there remains a need to distinguish replication-competent proviruses.
Rapid technological progress in single-cell analysis is beginning to offer new
approaches, notably CyTOF and microengraving, which could provide vastly more
information about the composition of the latent reservoir.
SUMMARY: To investigate and assess therapies directed towards eradication,
improved assays that simultaneously offer high sensitivity, precision and
information content will be needed.

DOI: 10.1097/COH.0b013e32835d811b 
PMCID: PMC3754420
PMID: 23314907  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1170. Curr Opin HIV AIDS. 2013 Mar;8(2):87-92. doi: 10.1097/COH.0b013e32835d80af.

Advances in detection and monitoring of plasma viremia in HIV-infected
individuals receiving antiretroviral therapy.

Palmer S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnostics and Vaccinology, Swedish Institute for Communicable 
Disease Control, Stockholm, Sweden. sarah.palmer@sydney.edu.au

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review will describe advances in detection and results of
monitoring persistent viremia in patients on long-term suppressive therapy. In
addition, the review explores the usefulness of these methods in determining the 
effectiveness of new HIV-1 eradication strategies in purging persistent HIV-1
reservoirs.
RECENT FINDINGS: Quantification of plasma HIV-1 RNA levels remains essential for 
determining the success of combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) in treated
patients. Recently, several new platforms with improved sensitivity for
quantifying HIV-1 RNA have been developed and the application of these assays has
revealed that low-level viremia persists in patients on suppressive therapy. In
addition, new technological advances such as digital PCR have been proposed to
increase the sensitivity of measuring and characterizing persistent HIV-1
viremia. The application of these assays will be important in determining the
effectiveness of future HIV-1 eradication strategies.
SUMMARY: The level of HIV-1 RNA in patient plasma remains an important marker for
determining the success of cART. New sensitive assays have found that HIV-1
persists in the plasma of patients on suppressive therapy that may have
implications for the clinical management of this disease and strategies for
eliminating HIV-1 infection.

DOI: 10.1097/COH.0b013e32835d80af 
PMID: 23314906  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1171. Planta. 2013 Apr;237(4):1149-61. doi: 10.1007/s00425-012-1833-5. Epub 2013 Jan 6.

Genome-wide identification and characterization of microRNA genes and their
targets in flax (Linum usitatissimum): Characterization of flax miRNA genes.

Barvkar VT(1), Pardeshi VC, Kale SM, Qiu S, Rollins M, Datla R, Gupta VS, Kadoo
NY.

Author information: 
(1)Biochemical Sciences Division, CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory, Pune,
411008, India.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small (20-24 nucleotide long) endogenous regulatory RNAs
that play important roles in plant growth and development. They regulate gene
expression at the post-transcriptional level by translational repression or
target degradation and gene silencing. In this study, we identified 116 conserved
miRNAs belonging to 23 families from the flax (Linum usitatissimum L.) genome
using a computational approach. The precursor miRNAs varied in length; while most
of the mature miRNAs were 21 nucleotide long, intergenic and showed conserved
signatures of RNA polymerase II transcripts in their upstream regions. Promoter
region analysis of the flax miRNA genes indicated prevalence of MYB transcription
factor binding sites. Four miRNA gene clusters containing members of three
phylogenetic groups were identified. Further, 142 target genes were predicted for
these miRNAs and most of these represent transcriptional regulators. The miRNA
encoding genes were expressed in diverse tissues as determined by digital
expression analysis as well as real-time PCR. The expression of fourteen miRNAs
and nine target genes was independently validated using the quantitative reverse 
transcription PCR (qRT-PCR). This study suggests that a large number of conserved
plant miRNAs are also found in flax and these may play important roles in growth 
and development of flax.

DOI: 10.1007/s00425-012-1833-5 
PMID: 23291876  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1172. PLoS One. 2012;7(12):e51988. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0051988. Epub 2012 Dec 19.

Different transcriptional profiles of RAW264.7 infected with Mycobacterium
tuberculosis H37Rv and BCG identified via deep sequencing.

Pan F(1), Zhao Y, Zhu S, Sun C, Lei L, Feng X, Han WY.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Food Safety and Hygienic Inspection, Jilin University,
Changchun, Jilin, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: The Mycobacterium tuberculosis H37Rv and BCG effects on the host cell
transcriptional profile consider a main research point. In the present study the 
transcriptome profiling analysis of RAW264.7 either infected with Mycobacterium
tuberculosis H37Rv or BCG have been reported using Solexa/Illumina digital gene
expression (DGE).
RESULTS: The DGE analysis showed 1,917 different expressed genes between the BCG 
and H37Rv group. In addition, approximately 5% of the transcripts appeared to be 
predicted genes that have never been described before. KEGG Orthology (KO)
annotations showed more than 71% of these transcripts are possibly involved in
approximately 210 known metabolic or signaling pathways. The gene of the 28
pathways about pathogen recognition receptors and Mycobacterium tuberculosis
interaction with macrophages were analyzed using the CLUSTER 3.0 available, the
Tree View tool and Gene Orthology (GO). Some genes were randomly selected to
confirm their altered expression levels by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR).
CONCLUSION: The present study used DGE from pathogen recognition receptors and
Mycobacterium tuberculosis interaction with macrophages to understand the
interplay between Mycobacterium tuberculosis and RAW264.7. Meanwhile find some
important host protein which was affected by Mycobacterium tuberculosis to
provide evidence for the further improvement of the present efficacy of existing 
Mycobacterium tuberculosis therapy and vaccine.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0051988 
PMCID: PMC3526534
PMID: 23284841  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1173. Anticancer Res. 2013 Jan;33(1):191-7.

Study of genetic and epigenetic alterations in urine samples as diagnostic
markers for prostate cancer.

Dimitriadis E(1), Kalogeropoulos T, Velaeti S, Sotiriou S, Vassiliou E, Fasoulis 
L, Klapsas V, Synesiou M, Apostolaki A, Trangas T, Pandis N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, St. Savvas Anticancer Hospital, Alexandras Ave 171,
11522, Athens, Greece. dthimios@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Early diagnosis of prostate cancer and identification of new
prognostic factors remain main issues in prostate cancer research. In this study,
we sought to test a panel of cancer-specific markers in urine samples as an aid
for early cancer diagnosis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Sedimented urine samples of 66 candidates for needle
biopsy were tested. Real time-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was applied to
detect the expression of transmembrane protease serine-2 and Ets-related gene
fusion (TMPRSS2-ERG), Ets-related gene (ERG), prostate cancer antigen-3 (PCA3),
and serine peptidase inhibitor kazal type-1 (SPINK1) transcripts. For testing of 
the methylation status of Glutahione S-tranferase P (GSTP1) and Ras association
domain family member-1(RASSF1A) promoter region, methylation-specific PCR
(MSP-PCR) was applied.
RESULTS: Among the tested parameters, the presence of TMPRSS2-ERG (OR=9.044, 95% 
CI=2.207-37.066, p=0.002), as well as a positive test result for PCA3 (OR=7.549, 
95% CI=1,858-30,672, p=0.005) were associated with the subsequent diagnosis of
prostate cancer. A multivariable logistic regression including all the
significantly associated variables [prostate-specific antigen (PSA), digital
rectal examination (DRE), TMPRSS2-ERG and PCA3], yielded a model with area under 
the receiver-operating characteristic curve (AUC) =0.894 (95% CI=0.772-1.00).
CONCLUSION: A multiplexed quantitative PCR analysis on sedimented urine, in
conjunction with the results of serum PSA levels and DRE, has the potential to
accurately foresee subsequent needle biopsy outcomes. On the basis of the above, 
algorithms may be designed to guide decisions for needle biopsy.


PMID: 23267145  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1174. BMC Genomics. 2012 Dec 12;13:700. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-13-700.

Transcriptomic analysis of 'Suli' pear (Pyrus pyrifolia white pear group) buds
during the dormancy by RNA-Seq.

Liu G(1), Li W, Zheng P, Xu T, Chen L, Liu D, Hussain S, Teng Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Horticulture, The State Agricultural Ministry's Key Laboratory
of Horticultural Plant Growth, Development & Quality Improvement, Zhejiang
University, Hangzhou, 310058,, Zhejiang Province, China.

BACKGROUND: Bud dormancy is a critical developmental process that allows
perennial plants to survive unfavorable environmental conditions. Pear is one of 
the most important deciduous fruit trees in the world, but the mechanisms
regulating bud dormancy in this species are unknown. Because genomic information 
for pear is currently unavailable, transcriptome and digital gene expression data
for this species would be valuable resources to better understand the molecular
and biological mechanisms regulating its bud dormancy.
RESULTS: We performed de novo transcriptome assembly and digital gene expression 
(DGE) profiling analyses of 'Suli' pear (Pyrus pyrifolia white pear group) using 
the Illumina RNA-seq system. RNA-Seq generated approximately 100 M high-quality
reads that were assembled into 69,393 unigenes (mean length = 853 bp), including 
14,531 clusters and 34,194 singletons. A total of 51,448 (74.1%) unigenes were
annotated using public protein databases with a cut-off E-value above 10-5. We
mainly compared gene expression levels at four time-points during bud dormancy.
Between Nov. 15 and Dec. 15, Dec. 15 and Jan. 15, and Jan. 15 and Feb. 15, 1,978,
1,024, and 3,468 genes were differentially expressed, respectively. Hierarchical 
clustering analysis arranged 190 significantly differentially-expressed genes
into seven groups. Seven genes were randomly selected to confirm their expression
levels using quantitative real-time PCR.
CONCLUSIONS: The new transcriptomes offer comprehensive sequence and DGE
profiling data for a dynamic view of transcriptomic variation during bud dormancy
in pear. These data provided a basis for future studies of metabolism during bud 
dormancy in non-model but economically-important perennial species.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-13-700 
PMCID: PMC3562153
PMID: 23234335  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1175. J Clin Microbiol. 2013 Feb;51(2):540-6. doi: 10.1128/JCM.02620-12. Epub 2012 Dec 
5.

Comparison of droplet digital PCR to real-time PCR for quantitative detection of 
cytomegalovirus.

Hayden RT(1), Gu Z, Ingersoll J, Abdul-Ali D, Shi L, Pounds S, Caliendo AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, St Jude Children’s Research Hospital, Memphis,
Tennessee, USA. Randall.Hayden@stjude.org

Quantitative real-time PCR (QRT-PCR) has been widely implemented for clinical
viral load testing, but a lack of standardization and relatively poor precision
have hindered its usefulness. Digital PCR offers highly precise, direct
quantification without requiring a calibration curve. Performance characteristics
of real-time PCR were compared to those of droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) for
cytomegalovirus (CMV) load testing. Tenfold serial dilutions of the World Health 
Organization (WHO) and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) 
CMV quantitative standards were tested, together with the AcroMetrix CMV tc panel
(Life Technologies, Carlsbad, CA) and 50 human plasma specimens. Each method was 
evaluated using all three standards for quantitative linearity, lower limit of
detection (LOD), and accuracy. Quantitative correlation, mean viral load, and
variability were compared. Real-time PCR showed somewhat higher sensitivity than 
ddPCR (LODs, 3 log(10) versus 4 log(10) copies/ml and IU/ml for NIST and WHO
standards, respectively). Both methods showed a high degree of linearity and
quantitative correlation for standards (R(2) ≥ 0.98 in each of 6 regression
models) and clinical samples (R(2) = 0.93) across their detectable ranges. For
higher concentrations, ddPCR showed less variability than QRT-PCR for the WHO
standards and AcroMetrix standards (P < 0.05). QRT-PCR showed less variability
and greater sensitivity than did ddPCR in clinical samples. Both digital and
real-time PCR provide accurate CMV load data over a wide linear dynamic range.
Digital PCR may provide an opportunity to reduce the quantitative variability
currently seen using real-time PCR, but methods need to be further optimized to
match the sensitivity of real-time PCR.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.02620-12 
PMCID: PMC3553899
PMID: 23224089  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1176. Anal Chem. 2013 Feb 5;85(3):1657-64. doi: 10.1021/ac302925f. Epub 2013 Jan 8.

Digital polymerase chain reaction measured pUC19 marker as calibrant for HPLC
measurement of DNA quantity.

Burke DG(1), Dong L, Bhat S, Forbes-Smith M, Fu S, Pinheiro L, Jing W, Emslie KR.

Author information: 
(1)National Measurement Institute, Lindfield, Australia 2070.
daniel.burke@measurement.gov.au

Digital polymerase chain reaction (dPCR) is potentially a primary method for
quantifying target DNA regions in a background of nontarget material and is
independent of external calibrators. Accurate dPCR measurements require
single-molecule detection by conventional PCR assays that may be subject to bias 
due to inhibition, interference, or sequence-derived PCR inefficiency.
Elimination or control of such biases is essential for validation of PCR assays, 
but this may require a substantial investment in resources. Here we present a
mechanism for DNA quantification that does not require PCR assay validation in
situations where target DNA quantity is high enough to be measured by physical
techniques such as quantitative high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) or 
electrophoresis. A commercially available DNA marker derived from pUC19 was
quantified by dPCR and was then used to calibrate an HPLC measuring system for
quantifying a DNA amplicon that had a high content of guanidine and cytidine. The
dPCR-calibrated HPLC measurement was verified by independent measurement using
isotope dilution mass spectrometry (IDMS). HPLC quantification, calibrated with
dPCR or IDMS measured DNA markers, provides an effective method for certifying
the quantity of genetic reference materials that may be difficult to analyze by
PCR. These secondary reference materials may then be used to validate and
calibrate quantitative PCR measurements and thus could expand the breadth of
applications for which traceability to the International System of Units is
possible.

DOI: 10.1021/ac302925f 
PMID: 23215355  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1177. Cancer Lett. 2013 Nov 1;340(2):171-8. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2012.10.040. Epub
2012 Nov 28.

Analyzing the cancer methylome through targeted bisulfite sequencing.

Lee EJ(1), Luo J, Wilson JM, Shi H.

Author information: 
(1)GHSU Cancer Center, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Georgia 
Health Sciences University, Augusta, GA 30912, USA.

Bisulfite conversion of genomic DNA combined with next-generation sequencing
(NGS) has become a very effective approach for mapping the whole-genome and
sub-genome wide DNA methylation landscapes. However, whole methylome shotgun
bisulfite sequencing is still expensive and not suitable for analyzing large
numbers of human cancer specimens. Recent advances in the development of targeted
bisulfite sequencing approaches offer several attractive alternatives. The
characteristics and applications of these methods are discussed in this review
article. In addition, the bioinformatic tools that can be used for sequence
capture probe design as well as downstream sequence analyses are also addressed.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2012.10.040 
PMCID: PMC3616138
PMID: 23200671  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1178. World J Gastroenterol. 2012 Nov 28;18(44):6481-8; discussion p. 6487. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v18.i44.6481.

Novel biosensor-based microarray assay for detecting rs8099917 and rs12979860
genotypes.

Li PY(1), Zhou XJ, Yao L, Fang XH, Ren JN, Song JW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, the Fifth Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-Sen
University, Zhuhai 519000, Guangdong Province, China.

AIM: To evaluate a novel biosensor-based microarray (BBM) assay for detecting
rs12979860 and rs8099917 genotypes.
METHODS: Four probes specific for rs8099917C/T or rs12979860G/T detection and
three sets of quality control probes were designed, constructed and arrayed on an
optical biosensor to develop a microarray assay. Two sets of primers were used in
a one tube polymerase chain reaction (PCR) system to amplify two target fragments
simultaneously. The biosensor microarray contained probes that had been sequenced
to confirm that they included the rs8099917C/T or rs12979860G/T alleles of
interest and could serve as the specific assay standards. In addition to
rehybridization of four probes of known sequence, a total of 40 clinical samples 
collected from hepatitis C seropositive patients were also tested. The target
fragments of all 40 samples were amplified in a 50 μL PCR system. Ten μL of each 
amplicon was tested by BBM assay, and another 40 μL was used for sequencing. The 
agreement of the results obtained by the two methods was tested statistically
using the kappa coefficient. The sensitivity of the BBM assay was evaluated using
serial dilutions of ten clinical blood samples containing 10(3)-10(4) white
cells/μL.
RESULTS: As shown by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, two target segments of
the interleukin 28B-associated polymorphisms (SNPs) were successfully amplified
in the one-tube PCR system. The lengths of the two amplified fragments were
consistent with the known length of the target sequences, 137 and 159 bps. After 
hybridization of the PCR amplicons with the probes located on the BBM array, the 
signals of each allele of both the rs8099917 SNPs and rs12979860 SNPs were
observed simultaneously and were clearly visible by the unaided eye. The signals 
were distinct from each other, could be interpreted visually, and accurately
recorded using an ordinary digital camera. To evaluate the specificity of the
assay, both the plasmids and clinical samples were applied to the microarray.
First, 30 PCR amplicons of the various SNP alleles were hybridized on the BBM
microarray. Full agreement between plasmids and the BBM assay was observed, with 
30/30 correct matches (100%). The kappa value for the BBM assay with plasmids was
1.00 (P < 0.05). For the 40 clinical blood samples, the BBM assay hybridization
and direct sequencing results were compared for each amplicon. For patient blood 
samples, agreement was 28/28 for rs8099917T/T, 9/11 for rs8099917T/G, 1/1 for
rs8099917G/G, 24/24 for rs12979860C/C, 11/14 for rs12979860C/T, and 2/2 for
rs12979860T/T. Only five clinical samples of amplicon assay and direct sequencing
results were discordant and heterozygotes: 2/11 rs8099917T/G and 3/14
rs12979860C/T. The agreement of outcomes between BBM assay and direct sequencing 
for the detection of rs8099917 and rs12979860 was 95% and 92.5%, respectively;
and the corresponding kappa values were 0.88 and 0.85 (A kappa value > 0.75 was
defined as substantial agreement). The BBM assay and sequencing had similar
specificities for detection and identification of the two SNPs and their alleles.
The sensitivity evaluation showed that the BBM assay could detect and identify
SNP sequences present in blood samples containing as few as 10(2) white blood
cells/μL.
CONCLUSION: This biosensor microarray assay was highly specific, sensitive, rapid
and easy to perform. It is compatible with clinical practice for detection of
rs8099917 and rs12979860.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i44.6481 
PMCID: PMC3508644
PMID: 23197895  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1179. PLoS One. 2012;7(11):e47401. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0047401. Epub 2012 Nov 19.

Transcriptome and gene expression analysis of the rice leaf folder,
Cnaphalocrosis medinalis.

Li SW(1), Yang H, Liu YF, Liao QR, Du J, Jin DC.

Author information: 
(1)Provincial Key Laboratory for Agricultural Pest Management of the Mountainous 
Region, Institute of Entomology, Guizhou University, Guiyang, China.

BACKGROUND: The rice leaf folder (RLF), Cnaphalocrocis medinalis (Guenee)
(Lepidoptera: Pyralidae), is one of the most destructive pests affecting rice in 
Asia. Although several studies have been performed on the ecological and
physiological aspects of this species, the molecular mechanisms underlying its
developmental regulation, behavior, and insecticide resistance remain largely
unknown. Presently, there is a lack of genomic information for RLF; therefore,
studies aimed at profiling the RLF transcriptome expression would provide a
better understanding of its biological function at the molecular level.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: De novo assembly of the RLF transcriptome was performed via
the short read sequencing technology (Illumina). In a single run, we produced
more than 23 million sequencing reads that were assembled into 44,941 unigenes
(mean size = 474 bp) by Trinity. Through a similarity search, 25,281 (56.82%)
unigenes matched known proteins in the NCBI Nr protein database. The
transcriptome sequences were annotated with gene ontology (GO), cluster of
orthologous groups of proteins (COG), and KEGG orthology (KO). Additionally, we
profiled gene expression during RLF development using a tag-based digital gene
expression (DGE) system. Five DGE libraries were constructed, and variations in
gene expression were compared between collected samples: eggs vs. 3(rd) instar
larvae, 3(rd) instar larvae vs. pupae, pupae vs. adults. The results demonstrated
that thousands of genes were significantly differentially expressed during
various developmental stages. A number of the differentially expressed genes were
confirmed by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR).
CONCLUSIONS: The RLF transcriptome and DGE data provide a comprehensive and
global gene expression profile that would further promote our understanding of
the molecular mechanisms underlying various biological characteristics, including
development, elevated fecundity, flight, sex differentiation, olfactory behavior,
and insecticide resistance in RLF. Therefore, these findings could help elucidate
the intrinsic factors involved in the RLF-mediated destruction of rice and offer 
sustainable insect pest management.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0047401 
PMCID: PMC3501527
PMID: 23185238  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1180. Diagn Microbiol Infect Dis. 2013 Jan;75(1):1-4. doi:
10.1016/j.diagmicrobio.2012.10.009. Epub 2012 Nov 20.

Viral diagnostics in the era of digital polymerase chain reaction.

Sedlak RH(1), Jerome KR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.

Unlike quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), digital PCR (dPCR) achieves
sensitive and accurate absolute quantitation of a DNA sample without the need for
a standard curve. A single PCR reaction is divided into many separate reactions
that each have a positive or negative signal. By applying Poisson statistics, the
number of DNA molecules in the original sample is directly calculated from the
number of positive and negative reactions. The recent availability of multiple
commercial dPCR platforms has led to increased interest in clinical diagnostic
applications, such as low viral load detection and low abundance mutant
detection, where dPCR could be superior to traditional qPCR. Here we review
current literature that demonstrates dPCR's potential utility in viral
diagnostics, particularly through absolute quantification of target DNA sequences
and rare mutant allele detection.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diagmicrobio.2012.10.009 
PMCID: PMC3519953
PMID: 23182074  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1181. Herz. 2012 Dec;37(8):830-5. doi: 10.1007/s00059-012-3700-3.

Cellular immune mechanisms in myocarditis.

Noutsias M(1), Patil VJ, Maisch B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, Faculty of Medicine, University Hospital of Marburg 
and Giessen/UKGM GmbH, Philipps-Universität Marburg, Baldinger Str. 1, 35043,
Marburg, Germany. michel.noutsias@staff.uni-marburg.de

The introduction of immunohistological techniques enabled a substantially more
reliable diagnosis of inflammatory cardiomyopathy (DCMi) in endomyocardial
biopsies (EMB) compared to the histological Dallas criteria. Decisive progress
has been made in the understanding of cellular immune mechanisms in DCMi using
immunohistological techniques, which apart from the field of diagnosis refinement
have had prognostic implications and an influence on the selection criteria of
DCMi patients who will likely benefit from immunosuppressive treatment. Digital
image analysis systems have been employed to standardize quantification of
immunohistological EMB stainings. Quantification of T cell-related genes by a
methodologically validated preamplified real-time RT-PCR revealed that the T
cells are characterized by differential expression of Th1-, Treg-, and
CTL-related markers, while no major role could be confirmed for Th17 cells. The
reported virus-associated differential T cell receptor Vbeta dominance suggests
an antiviral specificity of virus-induced T cell responses in human DCMi.

DOI: 10.1007/s00059-012-3700-3 
PMID: 23179049  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1182. Nature. 2012 Dec 20;492(7429):438-42. doi: 10.1038/nature11629. Epub 2012 Nov 18.

Somatic copy number mosaicism in human skin revealed by induced pluripotent stem 
cells.

Abyzov A(1), Mariani J, Palejev D, Zhang Y, Haney MS, Tomasini L, Ferrandino AF, 
Rosenberg Belmaker LA, Szekely A, Wilson M, Kocabas A, Calixto NE, Grigorenko EL,
Huttner A, Chawarska K, Weissman S, Urban AE, Gerstein M, Vaccarino FM.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Neurodevelopment and Regeneration, Yale University, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520, USA.

Reprogramming somatic cells into induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) has been 
suspected of causing de novo copy number variation. To explore this issue, here
we perform a whole-genome and transcriptome analysis of 20 human iPSC lines
derived from the primary skin fibroblasts of seven individuals using
next-generation sequencing. We find that, on average, an iPSC line manifests two 
copy number variants (CNVs) not apparent in the fibroblasts from which the iPSC
was derived. Using PCR and digital droplet PCR, we show that at least 50% of
those CNVs are present as low-frequency somatic genomic variants in parental
fibroblasts (that is, the fibroblasts from which each corresponding human iPSC
line is derived), and are manifested in iPSC lines owing to their clonal origin. 
Hence, reprogramming does not necessarily lead to de novo CNVs in iPSCs, because 
most of the line-manifested CNVs reflect somatic mosaicism in the human skin.
Moreover, our findings demonstrate that clonal expansion, and iPSC lines in
particular, can be used as a discovery tool to reliably detect low-frequency CNVs
in the tissue of origin. Overall, we estimate that approximately 30% of the
fibroblast cells have somatic CNVs in their genomes, suggesting widespread
somatic mosaicism in the human body. Our study paves the way to understanding the
fundamental question of the extent to which cells of the human body normally
acquire structural alterations in their DNA post-zygotically.

DOI: 10.1038/nature11629 
PMCID: PMC3532053
PMID: 23160490  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1183. Lab Chip. 2013 Jan 21;13(2):267-73. doi: 10.1039/c2lc40906b. Epub 2012 Nov 16.

Programmable active droplet generation enabled by integrated pneumatic
micropumps.

Zeng Y(1), Shin M, Wang T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Kansas, Lawrence, KS 66045, USA.
yongz@ku.edu

In this work we have investigated the integrated diaphragm micropump as an active
fluidic control approach for the on-demand generation of droplets with precisely 
defined size, frequency and timing. In contrast to valve-actuated devices that
only modulate the flow of the dispersed phase being continuously injected, this
integrated micropump allows the combination of fluidic transport and modulation
to achieve active control of droplet generation. A distinct characteristic of
this method compared to the valve modulated droplet formation processes is that
it enables independent control of droplet generation frequency by adjusting the
pumping frequency and droplet size by flow conditions. We also demonstrated the
generation of complex droplet patterns through programming the pumping
configurations and the application to multi-volume digital PCR for precise and
quantitative detection of genetic targets. Overall, our results suggest that the 
pump-based droplet microfluidics provide a robust platform for programmable
active droplet generation which could facilitate the development of
high-performance chemical and biological assays.

DOI: 10.1039/c2lc40906b 
PMID: 23160148  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1184. J Microbiol Methods. 2013 Jan;92(1):9-10. doi: 10.1016/j.mimet.2012.10.013. Epub 
2012 Nov 7.

Estimated copy number of Bacillus anthracis plasmids pXO1 and pXO2 using digital 
PCR.

Straub T(1), Baird C, Bartholomew RA, Colburn H, Seiner D, Victry K, Zhang L,
Bruckner-Lea CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Chemical and Biological Signature Sciences Group, National Security
Directorate, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Richland, WA 99354, United
States. Timothy.Straub@pnnl.gov

We evaluated digital PCR (dPCR) to directly enumerate plasmid and chromosome
copies in three strains of Bacillus anthracis. Copy number estimates based on
conventional quantitative PCR (qPCR) highlighted the variability of using qPCR to
measure copy number whereas estimates based on direct sequencing are comparable
to dPCR.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mimet.2012.10.013 
PMID: 23142659  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1185. Electrophoresis. 2012 Dec;33(23):3506-13. doi: 10.1002/elps.201200441. Epub 2012 
Nov 8.

Quality control of next-generation sequencing library through an integrative
digital microfluidic platform.

Thaitrong N(1), Kim H, Renzi RF, Bartsch MS, Meagher RJ, Patel KD.

Author information: 
(1)Biotechnology and Bioengineering Department, Sandia National Laboratories,
Livermore, CA 94550, USA.

We have developed an automated quality control (QC) platform for next-generation 
sequencing (NGS) library characterization by integrating a droplet-based digital 
microfluidic (DMF) system with a capillary-based reagent delivery unit and a
quantitative CE module. Using an in-plane capillary-DMF interface, a prepared
sample droplet was actuated into position between the ground electrode and the
inlet of the separation capillary to complete the circuit for an electrokinetic
injection. Using a DNA ladder as an internal standard, the CE module with a
compact LIF detector was capable of detecting dsDNA in the range of 5-100 pg/μL, 
suitable for the amount of DNA required by the Illumina Genome Analyzer
sequencing platform. This DMF-CE platform consumes tenfold less sample volume
than the current Agilent BioAnalyzer QC technique, preserving precious sample
while providing necessary sensitivity and accuracy for optimal sequencing
performance. The ability of this microfluidic system to validate NGS library
preparation was demonstrated by examining the effects of limited-cycle PCR
amplification on the size distribution and the yield of Illumina-compatible
libraries, demonstrating that as few as ten cycles of PCR bias the size
distribution of the library toward undesirable larger fragments.

© 2012 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/elps.201200441 
PMID: 23135807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1186. Int J Mol Med. 2013 Jan;31(1):225-31. doi: 10.3892/ijmm.2012.1166. Epub 2012 Oct 
26.

Electroacupuncture promotes neurological functional recovery via the retinoic
acid signaling pathway in rats following cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury.

Hong J(1), Wu G, Zou Y, Tao J, Chen L.

Author information: 
(1)Academy of Integrative Medicine, Fujian University of Traditional Chinese
Medicine, Fuzhou 350122, PR China.

Neurogenesis is regulated by a number of signaling pathways, including the
retinoic acid (RA) pathway, a key regulator of neurogenesis in the subventricular
zone (SVZ) and hippocampus. Acupuncture has been used to treat neurological
conditions and is known to potentially enhance cell proliferation in the
neurogenic area (hippocampal dentate gyrus and the SVZ of the lateral ventricle
walls) in pathological conditions, which is associated with improved brain
function. However, whether or not the neuroprotective effects of
electroacupuncture (EA) are mediated by the regulation of the RA signaling
pathway remains to be determined. Using a transient middle cerebral artery
occlusion model, in the present study we evaluated the effect of EA on the
neurological functional recovery, infarction volume and investigated the
underlying molecular mechanisms. Two hundred and sixteen SD rats were randomly
divided into 3 groups: sham, model group (ischemic rats without EA stimulation)
and EA group (ischemic rats with EA stimulation on ST36 and LI11). Behavioral
deficits were detected with high-resolution digital analysis of 24-h home-cage
video recordings. Infarct volume was determined by triphenyltetrazolium
hydrochloride staining and the expression of RA mRNA and protein was measured
using RT-PCR and western blotting, respectively. We found that EA decreased the
infarct volume, promoted neurological functional recovery and increased the RA
mRNA and protein expression, compared with the model group. Findings of this
study suggest that promoting neurological functional recovery by modulating RA
expression in the post-ischemic brain is one of the mechanisms by which EA can be
effective in the treatment of ischemic stroke.

DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.2012.1166 
PMID: 23129018  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1187. Pediatr Surg Int. 2013 Jan;29(1):41-50. doi: 10.1007/s00383-012-3205-4.

Dietary supplementation with vitamin D stimulates intestinal epithelial cell
turnover after massive small bowel resection in rats.

Hadjittofi C(1), Coran AG, Mogilner JG, Pollak Y, Matter I, Sukhotnik I.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Intestinal Adaptation and Recovery, The Bruce Rappaport Faculty 
of Medicine, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel.

PURPOSE: While the endocrine action of the active metabolite
1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (VtD) has been well characterized in relation to the
maintenance of plasma calcium and phosphate homeostasis through regulation of
intestinal absorption, recent research has focused on its autocrine and/or
paracrine activities. Such activities have been best characterized in intestine, 
where VtD regulates cell differentiation and maturation. The purpose of this
study was to evaluate the effect of VtD on enterocyte turnover in a rat model of 
short bowel syndrome (SBS).
METHODS: Male rats were divided into four groups: sham rats underwent bowel
transection, sham-VtD rats underwent bowel transection and were treated oral VtD,
SBS rats underwent a 75 % bowel resection, and SBS-VtD rats underwent bowel
resection and were treated with VtD. Parameters of intestinal adaptation,
enterocyte proliferation and apoptosis were determined at sacrifice. Illumina's
digital gene expression (DGE) analysis was used to determine VtD pathway-related 
gene expression profiling. VtD receptor (VDR) and its promoter, Bax and Bcl-2
mRNA expression were determined using real-time PCR. Western blotting was used to
determine p-ERK, Bax and β-catenin protein levels.
RESULTS: From the total of 20,000 probes, 11 genes related to VtD signaling were 
investigated. Of these genes, five were found to be up-regulated in SBS versus
sham animals with a relative change in gene expression level of 20 %, five
remained unchanged, and one was down-regulated. VtD treatment in sham and SBS
rats resulted in significant up-regulation of the VDR gene and its promoter's
expression. SBS-VtD rats demonstrated a significant increase in all intestinal
mucosal parameters compared to SBS animals. A significant increase in cell
proliferation in SBS-VtD rats was accompanied by increased β-catenin protein
levels. A significant decrease in cell apoptosis in this group was correlated
with lower Bax/Bcl-2 mRNA and protein levels.
CONCLUSION: In a rat model of SBS, dietary supplementation with VtD stimulates
enterocyte turnover, which correlates with up-regulated VtD receptor expression
in the remaining small intestine.

DOI: 10.1007/s00383-012-3205-4 
PMID: 23114406  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1188. PLoS One. 2012;7(9):e45802. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0045802. Epub 2012 Sep 28.

Blood-based biomarkers of aggressive prostate cancer.

Liong ML(1), Lim CR, Yang H, Chao S, Bong CW, Leong WS, Das PK, Loh CS, Lau BE,
Yu CG, Ooi EJ, Nam RK, Allen PD, Steele GS, Wassmann K, Richie JP, Liew CC.

Author information: 
(1)Lam Wah Ee Hospital, Georgetown, Penang, Malaysia.

PURPOSE: Prostate cancer is a bimodal disease with aggressive and indolent forms.
Current prostate-specific-antigen testing and digital rectal examination
screening provide ambiguous results leading to both under-and over-treatment.
Accurate, consistent diagnosis is crucial to risk-stratify patients and
facilitate clinical decision making as to treatment versus active surveillance.
Diagnosis is currently achieved by needle biopsy, a painful procedure. Thus,
there is a clinical need for a minimally-invasive test to determine prostate
cancer aggressiveness. A blood sample to predict Gleason score, which is known to
reflect aggressiveness of the cancer, could serve as such a test.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Blood mRNA was isolated from North American and Malaysian 
prostate cancer patients/controls. Microarray analysis was conducted utilizing
the Affymetrix U133 plus 2·0 platform. Expression profiles from 255
patients/controls generated 85 candidate biomarkers. Following quantitative
real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis, ten disease-associated biomarkers remained for 
paired statistical analysis and normalization.
RESULTS: Microarray analysis was conducted to identify 85 genes differentially
expressed between aggressive prostate cancer (Gleason score ≥8) and controls.
Expression of these genes was qRT-PCR verified. Statistical analysis yielded a
final seven-gene panel evaluated as six gene-ratio duplexes. This molecular
signature predicted as aggressive (ie, Gleason score ≥8) 55% of G6 samples, 49%
of G7(3+4), 79% of G7(4+3) and 83% of G8-10, while rejecting 98% of controls.
CONCLUSION: In this study, we have developed a novel, blood-based biomarker panel
which can be used as the basis of a simple blood test to identify men with
aggressive prostate cancer and thereby reduce the overdiagnosis and overtreatment
that currently results from diagnosis using PSA alone. We discuss possible
clinical uses of the panel to identify men more likely to benefit from biopsy and
immediate therapy versus those more suited to an "active surveillance" strategy.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0045802 
PMCID: PMC3461021
PMID: 23071848  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1189. Int Orthop. 2012 Dec;36(12):2589-96. doi: 10.1007/s00264-012-1674-7. Epub 2012
Oct 13.

The effects of autologous bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell arterial perfusion on
vascular repair and angiogenesis in osteonecrosis of the femoral head in dogs.

Jin H(1), Xia B, Yu N, He B, Shen Y, Xiao L, Tong P.

Author information: 
(1)Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, 310053, China.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to observe the effects of marrow
mesenchymal stem cell (MSCs) arterial perfusion on vascular repair and
angiogenesis in osteonecrosis of the femoral head (ONFH).
METHODS: Twelve healthy male adult Beagle dogs were randomly divided into two
groups: group A (the control group) and group B (the MSCs arterial perfusion
group). ONFH animal models were established by hip dislocation and liquid
nitrogen. At the same time, MSCs were obtained, cultured and proliferated. After 
three weeks, arterial perfusion was performed in all animals. Group B was given
1 ml MSCs (5 × 10(6)-1 × 10(7)/ml), while 0.9 % normal saline was used in group
A. After four weeks or eight weeks, the dogs were put to death. The changes of
main arteries, the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), VEGF 
mRNA and microvessel density (MVD) of ONFH were observed. All the data were
analysed by SPSS13.0.
RESULTS: In digital subtraction angiography (DSA), after four or eight weeks of
treatment, the quantity and diameter of the main arteries of the femoral head in 
group B were improved, compared to group A (P < 0.05,P < 0.01). Concerning
histology and immunohistochemistry, after four or eight weeks of treatment, the
expression of VEGF and MVD were significantly higher than that of group A
(P < 0.05, P < 0.01). For real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction
(RT-PCR), after four or eight weeks of treatment, the expression of VEGF mRNA in 
group B was significantly higher than that of group A (P < 0.05, P < 0.01), and
after eight weeks of treatment, the expression of VEGF mRNA were significantly
higher than that of four-weeks treatment in group A (P <0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: MSCs arterial perfusion can promote vascular repair and angiogenesis
and then improve blood supply and repair of femoral head.

DOI: 10.1007/s00264-012-1674-7 
PMCID: PMC3508040
PMID: 23064553  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1190. J Vet Med Sci. 2013 Feb;75(2):219-23. Epub 2012 Oct 5.

Active hyaluronidase 2 expression in the granulation tissue formed in the healing
process of equine superficial digital flexor tendonitis.

Yuda Y(1), Kasashima Y, Kuwano A, Sato K, Hattori S, Arai K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Tissue Physiology, Tokyo University of Agriculture and
Technology, Tokyo, Japan.

Upregulation of hyaluronidase 2 (HYAL2), one of somatic hyaluronidase (HAase),
was demonstrated in granulation tissue during the healing of equine superficial
digital flexor tendon injuries. The activity of HAase was assessed by hyaluronan 
(HA)-containing gel zymography and in situ zymography using frozen sections
obtained from normal and injured tendon tissues. Elevated HAase activity was
identified in the extract from the tendinopathic tissues, with lower levels of
the activity in normal tendons. In situ zymography using fluorescently-labeled HA
demonstrated HAase activity in the granulation tissue formed in the injured
region. In addition, in situ hybridization analysis indicated that fibroblastic
cells in the granulation tissue of the injured tendon actively expressed HYAL2
but not HYAL1. Quantitative RT-PCR further confirmed a higher level of amplicons 
corresponding to HYAL2 in tendonitis-derived samples. These results suggest that 
elevated HYAL2 activity in the granulation tissue could participate in
controlling the healing process in equine tendonitis.


PMID: 23047331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1191. Genome Med. 2012 Oct 9;4(10):76. doi: 10.1186/gm377. eCollection 2012.

Digital transcriptome profiling of normal and glioblastoma-derived neural stem
cells identifies genes associated with patient survival.

Engström PG(1), Tommei D(1), Stricker SH(2), Ender C(2), Pollard SM(2), Bertone
P(3).

Author information: 
(1)EMBL European Bioinformatics Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus,
Cambridge CB10 1SD, UK. (2)Samantha Dickson Brain Cancer Unit and Department of
Cancer Biology, UCL Cancer Institute, University College London, Paul O'Gorman
Building, 72 Huntley Street, London WC1E 6BT, UK. (3)EMBL European Bioinformatics
Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Cambridge CB10 1SD, UK ; Genome Biology 
and Developmental Biology Units, European Molecular Biology Laboratory,
Meyerhofstraße 1, 69117 Heidelberg, Germany ; Wellcome Trust - Medical Research
Council Cambridge Stem Cell Institute, University of Cambridge, Tennis Court
Road, Cambridge CB2 1QR, UK.

BACKGROUND: Glioblastoma multiforme, the most common type of primary brain tumor 
in adults, is driven by cells with neural stem (NS) cell characteristics. Using
derivation methods developed for NS cells, it is possible to expand tumorigenic
stem cells continuously in vitro. Although these glioblastoma-derived neural stem
(GNS) cells are highly similar to normal NS cells, they harbor mutations typical 
of gliomas and initiate authentic tumors following orthotopic
xenotransplantation. Here, we analyzed GNS and NS cell transcriptomes to identify
gene expression alterations underlying the disease phenotype.
METHODS: Sensitive measurements of gene expression were obtained by
high-throughput sequencing of transcript tags (Tag-seq) on adherent GNS cell
lines from three glioblastoma cases and two normal NS cell lines. Validation by
quantitative real-time PCR was performed on 82 differentially expressed genes
across a panel of 16 GNS and 6 NS cell lines. The molecular basis and prognostic 
relevance of expression differences were investigated by genetic characterization
of GNS cells and comparison with public data for 867 glioma biopsies.
RESULTS: Transcriptome analysis revealed major differences correlated with glioma
histological grade, and identified misregulated genes of known significance in
glioblastoma as well as novel candidates, including genes associated with other
malignancies or glioma-related pathways. This analysis further detected several
long non-coding RNAs with expression profiles similar to neighboring genes
implicated in cancer. Quantitative PCR validation showed excellent agreement with
Tag-seq data (median Pearson r = 0.91) and discerned a gene set robustly
distinguishing GNS from NS cells across the 22 lines. These expression
alterations include oncogene and tumor suppressor changes not detected by
microarray profiling of tumor tissue samples, and facilitated the identification 
of a GNS expression signature strongly associated with patient survival (P =
1e-6, Cox model).
CONCLUSIONS: These results support the utility of GNS cell cultures as a model
system for studying the molecular processes driving glioblastoma and the use of
NS cells as reference controls. The association between a GNS expression
signature and survival is consistent with the hypothesis that a cancer stem cell 
component drives tumor growth. We anticipate that analysis of normal and
malignant stem cells will be an important complement to large-scale profiling of 
primary tumors.

DOI: 10.1186/gm377 
PMCID: PMC3556652
PMID: 23046790 


1192. Methods. 2013 Jan;59(1):S20-3. doi: 10.1016/j.ymeth.2012.09.012. Epub 2012 Oct 2.

Droplet Digital™ PCR quantitation of HER2 expression in FFPE breast cancer
samples.

Heredia NJ(1), Belgrader P, Wang S, Koehler R, Regan J, Cosman AM, Saxonov S,
Hindson B, Tanner SC, Brown AS, Karlin-Neumann G.

Author information: 
(1)Digital Biology Center, Bio-Rad Laboratories Inc., 7068 Koll Center Pkwy, Ste.
401, Pleasanton, CA 94566, USA.

The human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2, also known as erbB2) gene is 
involved in signal transduction for cell growth and differentiation. It is a cell
surface receptor tyrosine kinase and a proto-oncogene. Overexpression of HER2 is 
of clinical relevance in breast cancer due to its prognostic value correlating
elevated expression with worsening clinical outcome. At the same time, HER2
assessment is also of importance because successful anti-tumor treatment with
Herceptin® is strongly correlated with HER2 overexpression in the tumor
(approximately 30% of all breast tumors overexpress HER2). In a comprehensive
national study, Wolff et al. [1] state that "Approximately 20% of current HER2
testing may be inaccurate" which underscores the importance of developing more
accurate methods to determine HER2 status. Droplet Digital™ PCR (ddPCR™) has the 
potential to improve upon HER2 measurements due to its ability to quantitate DNA 
and RNA targets with high precision and accuracy. Here we present a study which
investigates whether ddPCR can be used to assess HER2 transcript levels in
formalin-fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) human breast tumors and whether these
ddPCR measurements agree with prior assessments of these same samples by
pathologists using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and in some cases fluorescence in
situ hybridization (FISH). We also determined the copy number of HER2 in these
samples as compared to the CEP17 reference gene.RESULTS: Clinical FFPE samples
were successfully studied using ddPCR and compared to results from standard FISH 
and IHC methodology. The results demonstrate that ddPCR can rank order the
samples in complete agreement with the current standard methods and that ddPCR
has the added benefit of providing quantitative results, rather than relying on
the expert skill of a seasoned pathologist for determination.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymeth.2012.09.012 
PMID: 23036330  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1193. Neurology. 2012 Oct 16;79(16):1693-8. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e31826e9b0a. Epub
2012 Oct 3.

Detection of IDH1 mutation in the plasma of patients with glioma.

Boisselier B(1), Gállego Pérez-Larraya J, Rossetto M, Labussière M, Ciccarino P, 
Marie Y, Delattre JY, Sanson M.

Author information: 
(1)Université Pierre et Marie Curie-Paris 6, Centre de Recherche de l'Institut du
Cerveau et de la Moelle Épinière (CRICM) UMR-S975, Paris, France.

OBJECTIVE: The IDH1(R132H) mutation is both a strong prognostic predictor and a
diagnostic hallmark of gliomas and therefore has major clinical relevance. Here, 
we developed a new technique to detect the IDH1(R132H) mutation in the plasma of 
patients with glioma.
METHODS: Small-size DNA (150-250 base pairs) was extracted from the plasma of 31 
controls and 80 patients with glioma with known IDH1(R132H) status and correlated
with MRI data. The IDH1(R132H) mutation was detected by a combination of
coamplification at lower denaturation temperature and digital PCR.
RESULTS: The small size DNA concentration was 1.2 ng/mL (range 0.1-6.6) in
controls vs 1.2 ng/mL (range 0.1-50.3) in patients with glioma (p = not
significant) and 0.9 ng/mL (0.0-3.0) in low-grade gliomas vs 1.5 ng/mL in
high-grade gliomas (p < 0.01). The small size DNA concentration correlated with
enhancing tumor volume (1.6 ng/mL [0.4-24.9] when <10 cm(3) and 14.0 ng/mL
[0.6-50.3] when ≥10 cm(3)). The IDH1(R132H) mutation was detected in 15 out of 25
plasma DNA mixtures (60%) from patients with mutated tumors and in none of the 14
patients with a nonmutated tumor. The sensitivity increased with enhancing tumor 
volume (3/9 in nonenhancing tumors, 6/10 for enhancing volume <10 cm(3), and 6/6 
for enhancing volume ≥10 cm(3)).
CONCLUSION: With a specificity of 100% and a sensitivity related to the tumor
volume and contrast enhancement, IDH1(R132H) identification has a valuable
diagnostic accuracy in patients not amenable to biopsy.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e31826e9b0a 
PMID: 23035067  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1194. Biotechniques. 2012 Aug;53(2):91-8. doi: 10.2144/0000113903.

Identification of artifactual microarray probe signals constantly present in
multiple sample types.

Mao S(1), Souza AL, Goodrich RJ, Krawetz SA.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular Medicine and Genetics, Department of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, USA.

The detection, identification, and quantitation of transcripts have evolved from 
simple Northern analysis, cDNA cloning, and sequencing to RT-PCR, microarrays,
and now digital gene expression using ultra-high-throughput RNA sequencing
(RNA-Seq). During the course of our studies we observed that some microarray
probes show very high signal intensity values yet are discordant when compared
with RNA-Seq. A total of 99 probes from approximately 30,000 were identified as
consistently discordant in four human tissues or cell lines. Interestingly, this 
set of discordant probes appears array-dependent. Among the 99 probes identified,
70 constantly exhibited a high signal in all 713 available samples surveyed using
the Illumina HumanHT-12v4 platform. Some were discordant with additional probes
that annotated the same genes. Absence of a number of these transcripts was
confirmed by quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR). Our findings suggest that one must be
cautious, as some array probes do not capture the level of the target.

DOI: 10.2144/0000113903 
PMID: 23030061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1195. EJIFCC. 2012 Oct 12;23(3):76-9. eCollection 2012.

Recent Developments in Miniaturized PCR-Microchips, Microarrays and
Microdroplets.

Kricka LJ(1), Pollak ES(1), Fortina P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Pennsylvania
School of Medicine , Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. (2)Department of Cancer
Biology, Kimmel Cancer Center, Thomas Jefferson University, Jefferson Medical
College , Philadelphia, PA 19107.

Microminiaturization of assays and lab-on-a-chip devices hold considerable
promise for the future of analysis, especially in point-of-care testing. This
article focuses on developments that have occurred during the last five years in 
the specific area of microchip PCR and miniaturized PCR in arrays of reaction
vessels and droplets. Although, this area continues to be an active focus of
research and development and the variety and ingenuity of microchip PCR and
integrated microchip PCR devices continue to increase, commercialization lags
behind the progress being made in digital PCR and arrays for real-time PCR.


PMCID: PMC4975255
PMID: 27683419 


1196. Pathologe. 2012 Nov;33 Suppl 2:200-4. doi: 10.1007/s00292-012-1674-9.

[Application of digital pathology tools. An unusual case of non-Hodgkin
lymphoma].

[Article in German]

Meyer AS(1), Dallenbach FE, Lienert G, Möller P, Lennerz JK.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Pathologie, Universität Ulm, Ulm.

Currently, lymphoma diagnosis is based on a combination of morphology,
immunophenotyping, and molecular testing. Using the example of an unusual case of
malignant non-Hodgkin lymphoma, we show that improved visualization using digital
pathology contributes to the convergence of these complementary diagnostic
modalities. A 45-year-old woman presented with skin rash and cervical
lymphadenopathy. Histological workup of an excised lymph node showed loss of
normal architecture with diffuse infiltration and increased mitotic activity.
Immunohistochemistry for CD3/CD5 showed atypical arrangement and infiltration of 
a T-cell population that dominated over regionally dense, MUM1-positive
plasmacellular infiltrates. Expanded CD21/CD23-positive meshworks of follicular
dendritic cells were present within and between regressed follicles and the
T-cell infiltrate; staining for CD56 and cyclin-D1 was negative. Quantification
of Ki-67 staining within the T-, B- and plasmacellular compartments was achieved 
by digital image conversion, overlay and subsequent quantification algorithms
that revealed proliferation within more than 60% of T-cells, over 50% of plasma
cells and only 20% of B-cells. Clonality analysis by PCR revealed monoclonal
rearrangement for both T-cell receptor gamma chains and immunoglobulin heavy
chains. Taken together, we present an unusual combination of an
angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma (AITL) and simultaneous plasmacellular
lymphoma. This report demonstrates how application of modern tools of digital
pathology can visually integrate unusual morphological and molecular findings.

DOI: 10.1007/s00292-012-1674-9 
PMID: 23011022  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1197. J Med Microbiol. 2013 Jan;62(Pt 1):36-45. doi: 10.1099/jmm.0.049957-0. Epub 2012 
Sep 20.

Harnessing the genome: development of a hierarchical typing scheme for
meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.

Stone MJ(1), Wain J, Ivens A, Feltwell T, Kearns AM, Bamford KB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, London, UK.

A major barrier to using genome sequencing in medical microbiology is the ability
to interpret the data. New schemes that provide information about the importance 
of sequence variation in both clinical and public health settings are required.
Meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is an important nosocomial
pathogen that is being observed with increasing frequency in community settings. 
Better tools are needed to improve our understanding of its transmissibility and 
micro-epidemiology in order to develop effective interventions. Using DNA
microarray technology we identified a set of 20 binary targets whose presence or 
absence could be determined by PCR, producing a PCR binary typing scheme
(PCR-BT). This was combined with multi-locus sequence type-based, sequence
nucleotide polymorphism typing to form a hierarchical typing scheme. When applied
to a set of epidemiologically unrelated isolates, a high degree of concordance
was observed with PFGE (98.8 %). The scheme was able to detect the presence or
absence of an outbreak strain in eight out of nine outbreak investigations,
demonstrating epidemiological concordance. PCR-BT was better than PFGE at
distinguishing between outbreak strains, particularly where epidemic MRSA-15 was 
involved. The method developed here is a rapid, digital typing scheme for S.
aureus for use in both micro- and macro-epidemiological investigations that has
the advantage of being suitable for use in routine diagnostic laboratories. The
targets are defined and therefore the types can be defined by any platform
capable of detecting the sequences used, including whole genome sequencing.

DOI: 10.1099/jmm.0.049957-0 
PMID: 23002072  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1198. J Virol Methods. 2012 Dec;186(1-2):68-72. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2012.08.019.
Epub 2012 Sep 4.

Low-level detection and quantitation of cellular HIV-1 DNA and 2-LTR circles
using droplet digital PCR.

Henrich TJ(1), Gallien S, Li JZ, Pereyra F, Kuritzkes DR.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard
Medical School, Boston, MA 02119, USA. thenrich@partners.org

Droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) is an emerging nucleic acid detection method that
provides absolute quantitations of target sequences without relying on the use of
standard curves. The ability of ddPCR to detect and quantitate total HIV-1 DNA
and 2-LTR circles from a panel of patients on and off antiviral therapy was
evaluated compared to established real-time (RT)-PCR methods. To calculate the
dynamic range of ddPCR for HIV-1 DNA and 2-LTR circles, serial dilutions of DNA
amplicons or episomes were determined by ddPCR as well as with RT-PCR. HIV-1 DNA 
from 3 viremic patients and 4 patients on suppressive antiretroviral therapy, and
2-LTR circles from 3 patients with low-level viremia were also quantitated. Copy 
numbers determined by ddPCR of serial dilutions of HIV-1 or human CCR5 DNA
amplicon standards were comparable to nominal input copy number. The sensitivity 
of ddPCR to detect HIV-1 or CCR5 DNA was similar to that of RT-PCR. Low levels of
2-LTR circles were detected in samples from all 3 patients by both ddPCR and
RT-PCR. ddPCR is a promising novel technology for the study of HIV-1 reservoirs
and persistence, but further optimization of this novel technology would enhance 
the detection of very low-level viral genetic targets.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2012.08.019 
PMCID: PMC3517891
PMID: 22974526  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1199. Lab Chip. 2012 Oct 21;12(20):3995-4002.

Automated generation of libraries of nL droplets.

Kaminski TS(1), Jakiela S, Czekalska MA, Postek W, Garstecki P.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physical Chemistry, Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw, Poland.

We demonstrate an integrated system for rapid and automated generation of
multiple, chemically distinct populations of ~10(3)-10(4) sub-nanoliter droplets.
Generation of these 'libraries of droplets' proceeds in the following automated
steps: i) generation of a sequence of micro-liter droplets of individually
predetermined composition, ii) injection of these 'parental' droplets onto a
chip, iii) transition from a mm- to a μm-scale of the channels and splitting each
of the parental drops with a flow-focusing module into thousands of tightly
monodisperse daughter drops and iv) separation of such formed homogeneous
populations with plugs of a third immiscible fluid. This method is compatible
both with aspiration of microliter portions of liquid from a 96-well plate with a
robotic station and with automated microfluidic systems that generate (~μL)
droplets of preprogrammed compositions. The system that we present bridges the
techniques that provide elasticity of protocols executed on microliter droplets
with the techniques for high-throughput screening of small (~pL, ~nL) droplet
libraries. The method that we describe can be useful in exploiting the synergy
between the ability to rapidly screen distinct chemical environments and to
perform high-throughput studies of single cells or molecules and in digital
droplet PCR systems.

DOI: 10.1039/c2lc40540g 
PMID: 22968539 


1200. Nucleic Acids Res. 2012 Nov 1;40(20):10073-83. doi: 10.1093/nar/gks666. Epub 2012
Sep 7.

Modelling and simulating generic RNA-Seq experiments with the flux simulator.

Griebel T(1), Zacher B, Ribeca P, Raineri E, Lacroix V, Guigó R, Sammeth M.

Author information: 
(1)Bioinformatics and Genomics Program, Centre de Regulació Genòmica (CRG), 08003
Barcelona, Spain.

High-throughput sequencing of cDNA libraries constructed from cellular RNA
complements (RNA-Seq) naturally provides a digital quantitative measurement for
every expressed RNA molecule. Nature, impact and mutual interference of biases in
different experimental setups are, however, still poorly understood-mostly due to
the lack of data from intermediate protocol steps. We analysed multiple RNA-Seq
experiments, involving different sample preparation protocols and sequencing
platforms: we broke them down into their common--and currently
indispensable--technical components (reverse transcription, fragmentation,
adapter ligation, PCR amplification, gel segregation and sequencing),
investigating how such different steps influence abundance and distribution of
the sequenced reads. For each of those steps, we developed universally applicable
models, which can be parameterised by empirical attributes of any experimental
protocol. Our models are implemented in a computer simulation pipeline called the
Flux Simulator, and we show that read distributions generated by different
combinations of these models reproduce well corresponding evidence obtained from 
the corresponding experimental setups. We further demonstrate that our in silico 
RNA-Seq provides insights about hidden precursors that determine the final
configuration of reads along gene bodies; enhancing or compensatory effects that 
explain apparently controversial observations can be observed. Moreover, our
simulations identify hitherto unreported sources of systematic bias from RNA
hydrolysis, a fragmentation technique currently employed by most RNA-Seq
protocols.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gks666 
PMCID: PMC3488205
PMID: 22962361  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1201. Insect Mol Biol. 2012 Oct;21(5):535-43. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2583.2012.01158.x.

Hsp70 and small Hsps are the major heat shock protein members involved in midgut 
metamorphosis in the common cutworm, Spodoptera litura.

Gu J(1), Huang LX, Shen Y, Huang LH, Feng QL.

Author information: 
(1)Guangdong Provincial Key Lab of Biotechnology for Plant Development, School of
Life Sciences, South China Normal University, Guangzhou, China.

Heat shock proteins (Hsps) are important chaperones, which are involved in
various signal pathways and regulate lots of physiological processes. Early
research suggested that some Hsps are involved in insect development. However,
few studies have been carried out to explore the roles of Hsps, especially in
larval-pupal metamorphosis. In the present study, 49 Hsp unigenes were identified
in the Spodoptera litura transcriptome and their mRNA expression profiles during 
midgut metamorphosis were examined using a tag-based digital gene expression
system. The genes with the most different levels of expression were then cloned
and their expression patterns in midguts from sixth instar larvae to pupae were
analysed using real time quantitative PCR. The responses of these genes to
juvenile hormone (JH) and 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E) were also studied. The results
showed that the mRNA levels of 22 Hsp unigenes changed significantly during
midgut metamorphosis. Amongst these 22 unigenes, hsp70, hsp20.4 and hsp20.8 were 
the most up-regulated members, and hsp15.9, hsp19.3 and hsp22.0 were the most
down-regulated ones. Further studies showed that hsp70, hsp20.4 and hsp20.8 were 
remarkably up-regulated by JH. In addition, 20E slightly increased the mRNA
levels of both hsp20.4 and hsp20.8. However, hsp15.9, hsp19.3 and hsp22.0 did not
respond to either JH or 20E. These results indicate that Hsp70 and small Hsps
(sHsps) are probably the major players in midgut metamorphosis in S. litura. The 
current findings provide valuable insights into the roles of the Hsp superfamily 
in insect metamorphosis.

© 2012 Royal Entomological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2583.2012.01158.x 
PMID: 22957810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1202. Curr Opin Hematol. 2012 Nov;19(6):462-8. doi: 10.1097/MOH.0b013e328358e17a.

Recent advances in the analysis of fetal nucleic acids in maternal plasma.

Tsui NB(1), Lo YM.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Research into Circulating Fetal Nucleic Acids, Li Ka Shing
Institute of Health Sciences, Hong Kong, China. nancytsui@cuhk.edu.hk

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Noninvasive prenatal diagnosis can be achieved by analyzing
cell-free fetal DNA in maternal plasma. The fact that circulating fetal DNA
represents only a minor fraction of the DNA that is present in maternal plasma
has presented analytical challenges for a number of applications. In this review,
we discuss such challenges and how they have been resolved by recent developments
in the field.
RECENT FINDINGS: Digital molecular counting methods, such as digital PCR and
massively parallel sequencing, have enabled high quantitative precision for
maternal plasma DNA analysis. Noninvasive prenatal analysis of monogenic disease 
mutations has been achieved by identifying small quantitative differences between
the mutant and wild-type alleles in maternal plasma. By measuring the small
increment in the fractional concentrations of DNA derived from potentially
aneuploid chromosomes in maternal plasma, fetal chromosomal aneuploidies have
been detected with high diagnostic accuracies.
SUMMARY: Recently, advances in molecular technologies have enhanced the
diagnostic applications of maternal plasma DNA analysis for noninvasive prenatal 
diagnosis. We foresee that this technology could play an increasingly important
role in prenatal investigations.

DOI: 10.1097/MOH.0b013e328358e17a 
PMID: 22954725  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1203. Methods. 2013 Jan;59(1):101-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ymeth.2012.08.001. Epub 2012 Aug
19.

Digital PCR strategies in the development and analysis of molecular biomarkers
for personalized medicine.

Day E(1), Dear PH, McCaughan F.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
Ekd27@cam.ac.uk

The efficient delivery of personalized medicine is a key goal of healthcare over 
the next decade. It is likely that PCR strategies will play an important role in 
the delivery of this goal. Digital PCR has certain advantages over more
traditional PCR protocols. In this article we will discuss the current status of 
digital PCR, highlighting its advantages and focusing on how it can be utilized
in biomarker development and analysis, including the use of individualized
biomarkers. We will explore recent developments in this field including examples 
of how digital PCR may integrate with next generation sequencing to deliver truly
personalized medicine.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymeth.2012.08.001 
PMID: 22926236  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1204. Genomics Proteomics Bioinformatics. 2012 Jun;10(3):127-35. doi:
10.1016/j.gpb.2012.06.002. Epub 2012 Jun 25.

CDS: a fold-change based statistical test for concomitant identification of
distinctness and similarity in gene expression analysis.

Tchitchek N(1), Dzib JF, Targat B, Noth S, Benecke A, Lesne A.

Author information: 
(1)Institut des Hautes Etudes Scientifiques, Bures-sur-Yvette 91440, France.

The problem of identifying differential activity such as in gene expression is a 
major defeat in biostatistics and bioinformatics. Equally important, however much
less frequently studied, is the question of similar activity from one biological 
condition to another. The fold-change, or ratio, is usually considered a relevant
criterion for stating difference and similarity between measurements.
Importantly, no statistical method for concomitant evaluation of similarity and
distinctness currently exists for biological applications. Modern microarray,
digital PCR (dPCR), and Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS) technologies frequently 
provide a means of coefficient of variation estimation for individual
measurements. Using fold-change, and by making the assumption that measurements
are normally distributed with known variances, we designed a novel statistical
test that allows us to detect concomitantly, thus using the same formalism,
differentially and similarly expressed genes (http://cds.ihes.fr). Given two sets
of gene measurements in different biological conditions, the probabilities of
making type I and type II errors in stating that a gene is differentially or
similarly expressed from one condition to the other can be calculated.
Furthermore, a confidence interval for the fold-change can be delineated.
Finally, we demonstrate that the assumption of normality can be relaxed to
consider arbitrary distributions numerically. The Concomitant evaluation of
Distinctness and Similarity (CDS) statistical test correctly estimates
similarities and differences between measurements of gene expression. The
implementation, being time and memory efficient, allows the use of the CDS test
in high-throughput data analysis such as microarray, dPCR, and NGS experiments.
Importantly, the CDS test can be applied to the comparison of single measurements
(N=1) provided the variance (or coefficient of variation) of the signals is
known, making CDS a valuable tool also in biomedical analysis where typically a
single measurement per subject is available.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gpb.2012.06.002 
PMCID: PMC5054499
PMID: 22917185  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1205. Vet J. 2012 Sep;193(3):685-93. doi: 10.1016/j.tvjl.2012.06.054. Epub 2012 Aug 15.

Growth curves and morphology of three Treponema subtypes isolated from digital
dermatitis in cattle.

Döpfer D(1), Anklam K, Mikheil D, Ladell P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Sciences, University of Wisconsin, School of Veterinary 
Medicine, 2015 Linden Dr., Madison, WI 53706, USA. dopferd@vetmed.wisc.edu

Digital dermatitis (DD) is an infectious claw disease of cattle that causes
painful lesions, principally along the coronary band of the claws. In the US
alone, the estimated economic impact of DD is estimated to be $190 million. The
etiology of DD remains unclear and there is no reliable laboratory test, so DD is
most often diagnosed clinically. Spirochetal bacteria of the genera Treponema
have been implicated in DD infections following their isolation using culture
techniques, serological detection of bovine antibodies against treponemes, and
amplification of treponemal 16s DNA sequences by PCR. During in vitro growth of
spirochetes and treponemes isolated from DD, morphological changes have been
observed indicating the presence of a spiral form and an encysted form. It is not
known why encysted forms appear or what role they have in the progression of DD. 
The current study established growth curves for three subtypes of treponemes,
Treponema denticola-like, Treponema phagedenis-like, and Treponema medium-like,
while photographically monitoring changes in morphology. In addition to observing
spiral and encysted forms, two intermediate forms were also observed. These
appeared as either spiral forms with spherical bodies or as enveloped clusters of
granules. The observation of encysted forms adds further support to the theory
that treponemes causing recurrent infections deep in bovine skin have mechanisms 
to facilitate persistence and the chronic character of DD.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tvjl.2012.06.054 
PMID: 22901455  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1206. Clin Chem. 2012 Oct;58(10):1467-75. Epub 2012 Aug 15.

Noninvasive prenatal diagnosis of monogenic diseases by targeted massively
parallel sequencing of maternal plasma: application to β-thalassemia.

Lam KW(1), Jiang P, Liao GJ, Chan KC, Leung TY, Chiu RW, Lo YM.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Research into Circulating Fetal Nucleic Acids, Li Ka Shing
Institute of Health Sciences, Hong Kong SAR, China.

BACKGROUND: A genomewide genetic and mutational profile of a fetus was recently
determined via deep sequencing of maternal plasma DNA. This technology could have
important applications for noninvasive prenatal diagnosis (NIPD) of many
monogenic diseases. Relative haplotype dosage (RHDO) analysis, a core step of
this procedure, would allow one to elucidate the maternally inherited half of the
fetal genome. For clinical applications, the cost and complexity of data analysis
might be reduced via targeted application of this approach to selected genomic
regions containing disease-causing genes. There is thus a need to explore the
feasibility of performing RHDO analysis in a targeted manner.
METHODS: We performed target enrichment by using solution-phase hybridization
followed by massively parallel sequencing of the β-globin gene region in 2
families undergoing prenatal diagnosis for β-thalassemia. We used digital PCR
strategies to physically deduce parental haplotypes. Finally, we performed RHDO
analysis with target-enriched sequencing data and parental haplotypes to reveal
the β-thalassemic status for the fetuses.
RESULTS: A mean sequencing depth of 206-fold was achieved in the β-globin gene
region by targeted sequencing of maternal plasma DNA. RHDO analysis was
successful for the sequencing data obtained from the target-enriched samples,
including a region in one of the families in which the parents had similar
haplotype structures. Data analysis revealed that both fetuses were heterozygous 
carriers of β-thalassemia.
CONCLUSIONS: Targeted sequencing of maternal plasma DNA for NIPD of monogenic
diseases is feasible.

© 2012 American Association for Clinical Chemistry

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2012.189589 
PMID: 22896714  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1207. Methods. 2013 Jan;59(1):89-100. doi: 10.1016/j.ymeth.2012.07.021. Epub 2012 Jul
24.

Application of next generation qPCR and sequencing platforms to mRNA biomarker
analysis.

Devonshire AS(1), Sanders R, Wilkes TM, Taylor MS, Foy CA, Huggett JF.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Cell Biology, LGC Limited, Queens Road, Teddington, Middlesex
TW11 0LY, UK.

Recent years have seen the emergence of new high-throughput PCR and sequencing
platforms with the potential to bring analysis of transcriptional biomarkers to a
broader range of clinical applications and to provide increasing depth to our
understanding of the transcriptome. We present an overview of how to process
clinical samples for RNA biomarker analysis in terms of RNA extraction and mRNA
enrichment, and guidelines for sample analysis by RT-qPCR and digital PCR using
nanofluidic real-time PCR platforms. The options for quantitative gene expression
profiling and whole transcriptome sequencing by next generation sequencing are
reviewed alongside the bioinformatic considerations for these approaches.
Considering the diverse technologies now available for transcriptome analysis,
methods for standardising measurements between platforms will be paramount if
their diagnostic impact is to be maximised. Therefore, the use of RNA standards
and other reference materials is also discussed.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymeth.2012.07.021 
PMID: 22841564  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1208. Syst Appl Microbiol. 2012 Sep;35(6):390-5. doi: 10.1016/j.syapm.2012.06.006. Epub
2012 Jul 27.

Molecular quantification of environmental DNA using microfluidics and digital
PCR.

Hoshino T(1), Inagaki F.

Author information: 
(1)Kochi institute for Core Sample Research, Japan Agency for Marine-Earth
Science and Technology (JAMSTEC), Monobe B200, Nankoku, Kochi, Japan.
hoshinot@jamstec.go.jp

Real-time PCR has been widely used to evaluate gene abundance in natural
microbial habitats. However, PCR-inhibitory substances often reduce the
efficiency of PCR, leading to the underestimation of target gene copy numbers.
Digital PCR using microfluidics is a new approach that allows absolute
quantification of DNA molecules. In this study, digital PCR was applied to
environmental samples, and the effect of PCR inhibitors on DNA quantification was
tested. In the control experiment using λ DNA and humic acids, underestimation of
λ DNA at 1/4400 of the theoretical value was observed with 6.58 ng μL(-1) humic
acids. In contrast, digital PCR provided accurate quantification data with a
concentration of humic acids up to 9.34 ng μL(-1). The inhibitory effect of paddy
field soil extract on quantification of the archaeal 16S rRNA gene was also
tested. By diluting the DNA extract, quantified copy numbers from real-time PCR
and digital PCR became similar, indicating that dilution was a useful way to
remedy PCR inhibition. The dilution strategy was, however, not applicable to all 
natural environmental samples. For example, when marine subsurface sediment
samples were tested the copy number of archaeal 16S rRNA genes was 1.04×10(3)
copies/g-sediment by digital PCR, whereas real-time PCR only resulted in
4.64×10(2) copies/g-sediment, which was most likely due to an inhibitory effect. 
The data from this study demonstrated that inhibitory substances had little
effect on DNA quantification using microfluidics and digital PCR, and showed the 
great advantages of digital PCR in accurate quantifications of DNA extracted from
various microbial habitats.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.syapm.2012.06.006 
PMID: 22840894  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1209. Lab Chip. 2012 Sep 7;12(17):3049-54. doi: 10.1039/c2lc40534b. Epub 2012 Jul 23.

Solid-phase PCR in a picowell array for immobilizing and arraying 100,000 PCR
products to a microscope slide.

Hoffmann J(1), Trotter M, von Stetten F, Zengerle R, Roth G.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for MEMS Applications, Department of Microsystems Engineering -
IMTEK, University of Freiburg, Georges-Koehler-Allee 103, Freiburg, 79110,
Germany.

We present a method for performing highly parallel PCR reactions in a picowell
array (PWA) simultaneously immobilizing generated PCR products in a covalent and 
spatially-resolved manner onto a microscope slide via solid-phase PCR (SP-PCR).
This so called PWA-SP-PCR was performed in picowell arrays featuring 100,000
wells cm(-2) of 19 pL reaction volumes with a surface-to-volume ratio of 0.2
μm(-1). Positive signals were obtained in 97.2% of the 110,000 wells in an area
of 110 mm(2). Immobilized DNA was either indirectly detected using
streptavidin-Cy5 or directly by molecular hybridisation of Cy3- and/or
Cy5-labelled probes. Amplification and immobilization was demonstrated for
template DNA ranging from 100 bp up to 1513 bp lengths. Even single DNA molecules
were successfully amplified and immobilized demonstrating digital solid-phase
PCR. Compared to widely established emulsion based PCR (emPCR) approaches,
leading to PCR products immobilized onto bead surfaces in a highly parallel
manner, the novel technique results in direct spatial registration of immobilized
PCR products in a microarray format. This enables the subsequent use for
massively parallel analysis similar to standard microarrays.

DOI: 10.1039/c2lc40534b 
PMID: 22820686  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1210. Genet Mol Biol. 2012 Jun;35(1 (suppl)):222-32. doi:
10.1590/S1415-47572012000200004.

Expression analysis in response to drought stress in soybean: Shedding light on
the regulation of metabolic pathway genes.

Guimarães-Dias F(1), Neves-Borges AC, Viana AA, Mesquita RO, Romano E, de Fátima 
Grossi-de-Sá M, Nepomuceno AL, Loureiro ME, Alves-Ferreira M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Genética Molecular Vegetal, Departamento de Genética,
Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.

Metabolomics analysis of wild type Arabidopsis thaliana plants, under control and
drought stress conditions revealed several metabolic pathways that are induced
under water deficit. The metabolic response to drought stress is also associated 
with ABA dependent and independent pathways, allowing a better understanding of
the molecular mechanisms in this model plant. Through combining an in silico
approach and gene expression analysis by quantitative real-time PCR, the present 
work aims at identifying genes of soybean metabolic pathways potentially
associated with water deficit. Digital expression patterns of Arabidopsis genes, 
which were selected based on the basis of literature reports, were evaluated
under drought stress condition by Genevestigator. Genes that showed strong
induction under drought stress were selected and used as bait to identify
orthologs in the soybean genome. This allowed us to select 354 genes of putative 
soybean orthologs of 79 Arabidopsis genes belonging to 38 distinct metabolic
pathways. The expression pattern of the selected genes was verified in the
subtractive libraries available in the GENOSOJA project. Subsequently, 13 genes
from different metabolic pathways were selected for validation by qPCR
experiments. The expression of six genes was validated in plants undergoing
drought stress in both pot-based and hydroponic cultivation systems. The results 
suggest that the metabolic response to drought stress is conserved in Arabidopsis
and soybean plants.

DOI: 10.1590/S1415-47572012000200004 
PMCID: PMC3392875
PMID: 22802708 


1211. Cancer Biol Ther. 2012 Aug;13(10):871-9. doi: 10.4161/cbt.20839. Epub 2012 Aug 1.

Exome sequencing and digital PCR analyses reveal novel mutated genes related to
the metastasis of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.

Zhou B(1), Irwanto A, Guo YM, Bei JX, Wu Q, Chen G, Zhang TP, Lei JJ, Feng QS,
Chen LZ, Liu J, Zhao YP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Surgery, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing, China.

Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is one of the most malignant cancers with
more than 94% mortality rate mainly due to the widespread metastases. To find out
the somatically mutated genes related to the metastasis of PDAC, we analyzed the 
matched tumor and normal tissue samples from a patient diagnosed with liver
metastatic PDAC using intensive exome capture-sequencing analysis (> 170×
coverage). Searching for the somatic mutations that drive the clonal expansion of
metastasis, we identified 12 genes with higher allele frequencies (AFs) of
functional mutations in the metastatic tumor, including known genes KRAS and TP53
for metastasis. Of the 10 candidate genes, 6 (ADRB1, DCLK1, KCNH2, NOP14,
SIGLEC1, and ZC3H7A), together with KRAS and TP53, were clustered into a single
network (p value = 1 × 10(-22)) that is related to cancer development. Moreover, 
these candidate genes showed abnormal expression in PDAC tissues and functional
impacts on the migration, proliferation, and colony formation abilities of
pancreatic cancer cell lines. Furthermore, through digital PCR analysis, we
revealed potential genomic mechanisms for the KRAS and TP53 mutations in the
metastatic tumor. Taken together, our study shows the possibility for such
personalized genomic profiling to provide new biological insight into the
metastasis of PDAC.

DOI: 10.4161/cbt.20839 
PMID: 22797009  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1212. PLoS One. 2012;7(6):e40246. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0040246. Epub 2012 Jun 29.

A Myb transcription factor of Phytophthora sojae, regulated by MAP kinase PsSAK1,
is required for zoospore development.

Zhang M(1), Lu J, Tao K, Ye W, Li A, Liu X, Kong L, Dong S, Zheng X, Wang Y.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Integrated Management of Crop Diseases and Pests, College of
Plant Protection, Nanjing Agricultural University, Ministry of Education,
Nanjing, China.

PsSAK1, a mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase from Phytophthora sojae, plays
an important role in host infection and zoospore viability. However, the
downstream mechanism of PsSAK1 remains unclear. In this study, the 3'-tag digital
gene expression (DGE) profiling method was applied to sequence the global
transcriptional sequence of PsSAK1-silenced mutants during the cysts stage and
1.5 h after inoculation onto susceptible soybean leaf tissues. Compared with the 
gene expression levels of the recipient P. sojae strain, several candidates of
Myb family were differentially expressed (up or down) in response to the loss of 
PsSAK1, including of a R2R3-type Myb transcription factor, PsMYB1. qRT-PCR
indicated that the transcriptional level of PsMYB1 decreased due to PsSAK1
silencing. The transcriptional level of PsMYB1 increased during sporulating
hyphae, in germinated cysts, and early infection. Silencing of PsMYB1 results in 
three phenotypes: a) no cleavage of the cytoplasm into uninucleate zoospores or
release of normal zoospores, b) direct germination of sporangia, and c) afunction
in zoospore-mediated plant infection. Our data indicate that the PsMYB1
transcription factor functions downstream of MAP kinase PsSAK1 and is required
for zoospore development of P. sojae.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0040246 
PMCID: PMC3386981
PMID: 22768262  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1213. PLoS One. 2012;7(6):e39954. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0039954. Epub 2012 Jun 29.

Quantitative analysis of viral load per haploid genome revealed the different
biological features of Merkel cell polyomavirus infection in skin tumor.

Ota S(1), Ishikawa S, Takazawa Y, Goto A, Fujii T, Ohashi K, Fukayama M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Chiba University Hospital, University of Chiba, Chuo,
Chiba, Chiba, Japan.

Merkel cell polyomavirus (MCPyV) has recently been identified in Merkel cell
carcinoma (MCC), an aggressive cancer that occurs in sun-exposed skin.
Conventional technologies, such as polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and
immunohistochemistry, have produced conflicting results for MCPyV infections in
non-MCC tumors. Therefore, we performed quantitative analyses of the MCPyV copy
number in various skin tumor tissues, including MCC (n = 9) and other sun
exposure-related skin tumors (basal cell carcinoma [BCC, n = 45], actinic
keratosis [AK, n = 52], Bowen's disease [n = 34], seborrheic keratosis [n = 5],
primary cutaneous anaplastic large-cell lymphoma [n = 5], malignant melanoma
[n = 5], and melanocytic nevus [n = 6]). In a conventional PCR analysis, MCPyV
DNA was detected in MCC (9 cases; 100%), BCC (1 case; 2%), and AK (3 cases; 6%). 
We then used digital PCR technology to estimate the absolute viral copy number
per haploid human genome in these tissues. The viral copy number per haploid
genome was estimated to be around 1 in most MCC tissues, and there were marked
differences between the MCC (0.119-42.8) and AK (0.02-0.07) groups. PCR-positive 
BCC tissue showed a similar viral load as MCC tissue (0.662).
Immunohistochemistry with a monoclonal antibody against the MCPyV T antigen
(CM2B4) demonstrated positive nuclear localization in most of the high-viral-load
tumor groups (8 of 9 MCC and 1 BCC), but not in the low-viral-load or
PCR-negative tumor groups. These results demonstrated that MCPyV infection is
possibly involved in a minority of sun-exposed skin tumors, including BCC and AK,
and that these tumors display different modes of infection.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0039954 
PMCID: PMC3386999
PMID: 22768181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1214. J Virol Methods. 2012 Oct;185(1):171-4. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2012.06.021. Epub
2012 Jul 2.

Purification and quantitation of bacteriophage M13 using desalting spin columns
and digital PCR.

Reitinger S(1), Petriv OI, Mehr K, Hansen CL, Withers SG.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for High-Throughput Biology, University of British Columbia, 2125 East 
Mall, Vancouver, BC, V6T 1Z4 Canada.

Separation of small molecules such as biotinylated baits from solutions of
filamentous bacteriophage is achieved generally through polyethylene glycol
precipitation of the phage and centrifugation prior to affinity selection or
panning. This method is laborious and time-consuming and is accompanied
frequently by significant loss of virions, especially when performed at low phage
concentrations. Similarly, accurate quantitation of phage is performed typically 
by counting plaques, a method that is tedious, low-throughput, and not amenable
easily to high titers. In this report it is demonstrated that commercially
available Zeba Spin Desalting Columns are useful devices for the efficient
separation of small molecules from bacteriophage, which pass through almost
unimpeded and remain infectious. It is shown further that digital PCR on
microfluidic chips is a fast and accurate high-throughput technique to determine 
phage genome concentrations precisely.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2012.06.021 
PMID: 22766184  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1215. PLoS One. 2012;7(6):e39181. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0039181. Epub 2012 Jun 20.

The effect of input DNA copy number on genotype call and characterising SNP
markers in the humpback whale genome using a nanofluidic array.

Bhat S(1), Polanowski AM, Double MC, Jarman SN, Emslie KR.

Author information: 
(1)National Measurement Institute, Lindfield, New South Wales, Australia.
Somanath.Bhat@measurement.gov.au

Recent advances in nanofluidic technologies have enabled the use of Integrated
Fluidic Circuits (IFCs) for high-throughput Single Nucleotide Polymorphism (SNP) 
genotyping (GT). In this study, we implemented and validated a relatively low
cost nanofluidic system for SNP-GT with and without Specific Target Amplification
(STA). As proof of principle, we first validated the effect of input DNA copy
number on genotype call rate using well characterised, digital PCR (dPCR)
quantified human genomic DNA samples and then implemented the validated method to
genotype 45 SNPs in the humpback whale, Megaptera novaeangliae, nuclear genome.
When STA was not incorporated, for a homozygous human DNA sample, reaction
chambers containing, on average 9 to 97 copies, showed 100% call rate and
accuracy. Below 9 copies, the call rate decreased, and at one copy it was 40%.
For a heterozygous human DNA sample, the call rate decreased from 100% to 21%
when predicted copies per reaction chamber decreased from 38 copies to one copy. 
The tightness of genotype clusters on a scatter plot also decreased. In contrast,
when the same samples were subjected to STA prior to genotyping a call rate and a
call accuracy of 100% were achieved. Our results demonstrate that low input DNA
copy number affects the quality of data generated, in particular for a
heterozygous sample. Similar to human genomic DNA, a call rate and a call
accuracy of 100% was achieved with whale genomic DNA samples following multiplex 
STA using either 15 or 45 SNP-GT assays. These calls were 100% concordant with
their true genotypes determined by an independent method, suggesting that the
nanofluidic system is a reliable platform for executing call rates with high
accuracy and concordance in genomic sequences derived from biological tissue.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0039181 
PMCID: PMC3380049
PMID: 22745712  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1216. J Anim Sci. 2012 Dec;90(12):4266-79. doi: 10.2527/jas.2012-5142. Epub 2012 Jun
28.

Differential expression patterns of growth-related microRNAs in the skeletal
muscle of Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus).

Huang CW(1), Li YH, Hu SY, Chi JR, Lin GH, Lin CC, Gong HY, Chen JY, Chen RH,
Chang SJ, Liu FG, Wu JL.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cellular and Organismic Biology, Academia Sinica, 128 Sec 2,
Academia Rd, Nankang Dist, Taipei City 11529, Taiwan.

MicroRNA (miRNA) are a class of small, single-stranded, non-coding RNA that
regulate mRNA expression at the post-transcriptional level and play important
roles in many fundamental biological processes. There is emerging evidence that
miRNA are critical regulators of widespread cellular functions, such as
differentiation, proliferation, and migration. At present, little is known about 
miRNA expression profiles related to skeletal muscle growth in aquatic organisms.
This study aimed to investigate the phenotypic variation in the body growth of
the Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) and to identify and quantify the
differential expression levels of selected growth-related transcriptomic miRNA in
the skeletal muscle of this fish. To this end, we performed next-generation
sequencing to define the full miRNA transcriptome in muscle tissue from Nile
tilapia and to detect differentially expressed miRNA between 2 strains of Nile
tilapia. These tilapia strains exhibited significant (P < 0.05) phenotypic
variation with respect to growth-related traits (body length and BW),
mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) haplotype diversity, and the differential expression of
selected growth-related genes. The results obtained from the transcriptome
analysis and real-time quantitative reverse transcription PCR (qRT-PCR) revealed 
significant differences in miRNA expression between fast-growing and control
strains of tilapia. Digital gene expression (DGE) profiling was performed based
on the obtained read abundance, and we identified down-regulated miRNA, including
let-7j, miR-140, miR-192, miR-204, miR-218a, miR-218b, miR-301c, and miR-460, and
up-regulated miRNA, including let-7b, let-7c, miR-133, miR-152, miR-15a,
miR-193a, miR-30b, and miR-34, associated with body growth in tilapia. These
results were further validated using real-time qRT-PCR and microarray profiling. 
In summary, the up- and down-regulation of miRNA involved in the GH/IGF-1 axis
signaling pathway suggests that the differential expression levels of
growth-related miRNA may serve as molecular markers that are predictive of
specific functional and diagnostic implications. The obtained data on genetic
polymorphisms in miRNA-target interactions are particularly useful for Nile
tilapia breeding programs.

DOI: 10.2527/jas.2012-5142 
PMID: 22745188  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1217. Clin Chem. 2012 Sep;58(9):1332-41. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2012.186577. Epub 2012
Jun 27.

Nanofluidic digital PCR for KRAS mutation detection and quantification in
gastrointestinal cancer.

Azuara D(1), Ginesta MM, Gausachs M, Rodriguez-Moranta F, Fabregat J, Busquets J,
Pelaez N, Boadas J, Galter S, Moreno V, Costa J, de Oca J, Capellá G.

Author information: 
(1)Translational Research Laboratory, Catalan Institute of Oncology-ICO-IDIBELL, 
Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Concomitant quantification of multiple mutant KRAS (v-Ki-ras2 Kirsten
rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog) alleles may provide information in addition
to that provided by standard mutation-detection procedures. We assessed the
feasibility of a nanofluidic digital PCR array platform to detect and quantify
KRAS mutations simultaneously in clinically relevant samples.
METHODS: We assessed 2 groups of patients (colorectal and pancreatic disease):
Group 1 consisted of 27 patients with colorectal carcinomas, 14 patients with
adenomas, and 5 control individuals; group 2 consisted of 42 patients with
pancreatic carcinoma, 4 with adenocarcinomas of the ampulla, and 6 with chronic
pancreatitis). Digital PCR was performed with the Digital Array Chip (Fluidigm).
RESULTS: Nanofluidic digital PCR detected mutant alleles at 0.05% to 0.1%,
depending on the variant analyzed. For the colorectal disease group, conventional
PCR detected 9 (64%) of 14 adenomas that were positive for KRAS mutants, whereas 
digital PCR increased this number to 11 (79%) of 14. Sixteen (59%) of 27
carcinomas showed KRAS mutation with conventional PCR. Two additional cases were 
detected with digital PCR. In 5 cases (3 adenomas, 2 carcinomas), the total
number of mutant alleles changed. For the pancreatic disease group, digital PCR
increased the number of positive cases from 26 to 34 (81%) and identified ≥ 2
mutant alleles in 25 cases, compared with conventional PCR, which identified
multiple KRAS mutant alleles in only 12 cases. A good correlation was observed
between results obtained with tumor biopsies and those obtained with pancreatic
juice.
CONCLUSIONS: Digital PCR provides a robust, quantitative measure of the
proportion of KRAS mutant alleles in routinely obtained samples. It also allows a
better classification of tumors, with potential clinical relevance.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2012.186577 
PMID: 22745110  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1218. Am J Vet Res. 2012 Jul;73(7):1047-56. doi: 10.2460/ajvr.73.7.1047.

Effects of cleavage by a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin
motifs-4 on gene expression and protein content of versican and aggrecan in the
digital laminae of horses with starch gruel-induced laminitis.

Wang L(1), Pawlak E, Johnson PJ, Belknap JK, Alfandari D, Black SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, College of Natural Sciences,
University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA 01003, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether increased gene expression of a disintegrin and
metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs-4 (ADAMTS-4) in laminae of horses
with starch gruel-induced laminitis was accompanied by increased enzyme activity 
and substrate degradation.
SAMPLE: Laminae from the forelimb hooves of 8 healthy horses and 17 horses with
starch gruel-induced laminitis (6 at onset of fever, 6 at onset of Obel grade 1
lameness, and 5 at onset of Obel grade 3 lameness).
PROCEDURES: Gene expression was determined by use of cDNA and real-time
quantitative PCR assay. Protein expression and processing were determined via
SDS-PAGE and quantitative western blotting. Protein distribution and abundance
were determined via quantitative immunofluorescent staining.
RESULTS: ADAMTS-4 gene expression was increased and that of versican decreased in
laminitic laminae, compared with expression in healthy laminae. Catalytically
active ADAMTS-4 also was increased in the tissue, as were ADAMTS-4-cleavage
fragments of versican. Immunofluorescent analyses indicated that versican was
depleted from the basal epithelia of laminae of horses at onset of Obel grade 3
lameness, compared with results for healthy laminae, and this was accompanied by 
regional separation of basal epithelial cells from the basement membrane.
Aggrecan gene and protein expression were not significantly affected.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Changes in gene and protein expression of
ADAMTS-4 and versican in the basal epithelium of laminitic laminae indicated a
fundamental change in the physiology of basal epithelial cells. This was
accompanied by and may have caused detachment of these cells from the basement
membrane.

DOI: 10.2460/ajvr.73.7.1047 
PMCID: PMC3535458
PMID: 22738057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1219. Am J Vet Res. 2012 Jul;73(7):1035-46. doi: 10.2460/ajvr.73.7.1035.

Distribution and processing of a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with
thrombospondin motifs-4, aggrecan, versican, and hyaluronan in equine digital
laminae.

Pawlak E(1), Wang L, Johnson PJ, Nuovo G, Taye A, Belknap JK, Alfandari D, Black 
SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, College of Natural Sciences,
University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA 01003, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the expression and distribution of a disintegrin and
metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs-4 (ADAMTS-4), its substrates
aggrecan and versican, and their binding partner hyaluronan in laminae of healthy
horses.
SAMPLE: Laminae from the forelimb hooves of 8 healthy horses.
PROCEDURES: Real-time quantitative PCR assay was used for gene expression
analysis. Hyaluronidase, chondroitinase, and keratanase digestion of lamina
extracts combined with SDS-PAGE and western blotting were used for protein and
proteoglycan analysis. Immunofluorescent and immunohistochemical staining of
tissue sections were used for protein and hyaluronan localization.
RESULTS: Genes encoding ADAMTS-4, aggrecan, versican, and hyaluronan synthase II 
were expressed in laminae. The ADAMTS-4 was predominantly evident as a 51-kDa
protein bearing a catalytic site neoepitope indicative of active enzyme and in
situ activity, which was confirmed by the presence of aggrecan and versican
fragments bearing ADAMTS-4 cleavage neoepitopes in laminar protein extracts.
Aggrecan, versican, and hyaluronan were localized to basal epithelial cells
within the secondary epidermal laminae. The ADAMTS-4 localized to these cells but
was also present in some cells in the dermal laminae.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Within digital laminae, versican exclusively 
and aggrecan primarily localized within basal epithelial cells and both were
constitutively cleaved by ADAMTS-4, which therefore contributed to their
turnover. On the basis of known properties of these proteoglycans, it is possible
that they can protect the basal epithelial cells of horses from biomechanical and
concussive stress.

DOI: 10.2460/ajvr.73.7.1035 
PMCID: PMC3535468
PMID: 22738056  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1220. Anal Chem. 2012 Jul 3;84(13):5645-52. doi: 10.1021/ac3008016. Epub 2012 Jun 20.

Digital detection of multiple minority mutants in stool DNA for noninvasive
colorectal cancer diagnosis.

Deng L(1), Qi Z, Zou B, Wu H, Huang H, Kajiyama T, Kambara H, Zhou G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Jinling Hospital, Nanjing University School of
Medicine, Nanjing, Jiangsu 210002, PR China.

Somatic mutations in stool DNA are quite specific to colorectal cancer (CRC), but
a method being able to detect the extraordinarily low amounts of mutants is
challengeable in sensitivity. We proposed a hydrogel bead-array to digitally
count CRC-specific mutants in stool at a low cost. At first, multiplex
amplification of targets containing multiple mutation loci of interest is carried
out by a target enriched multiplex PCR (Tem-PCR), yielding the templates
qualified for emulsion PCR (emPCR). Then, after immobilizing the beads from emPCR
on a glass surface, the incorporation of Cy3-dUTP into the mutant-specific
probes, which are specifically hybridized with the amplified beads from emPCR, is
used to color the beads coated with mutants. As all amplified beads are
hybridized with the Cy5-labeled universal probe, a mutation rate is readily
obtained by digitally counting the beads with different colors (yellow and red). 
A high specificity of the method is achieved by removing the mismatched probes in
a bead-array with electrophoresis. The approach has been used to simultaneously
detect 8 mutation loci within the APC, TP53, and KRAS genes in stools from eight 
CRC patients, and 50% of CRC patients were positively diagnosed; therefore, our
method can be a potential tool for the noninvasive diagnosis of CRC.

DOI: 10.1021/ac3008016 
PMID: 22715805  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1221. J Vet Sci. 2012 Jun;13(2):163-70.

Histologic morphology and involucrin, filaggrin, and keratin expression in normal
canine skin from dogs of different breeds and coat types.

Theerawatanasirikul S(1), Suriyaphol G, Thanawongnuwech R, Sailasuta A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Pathology, Faculty of Veterinary Science,
Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok 10330, Thailand.

The purpose of this study was to measure the thickness of canine epidermis at
various anatomical sites according to localization of cornified envelopes
(involucrin and filaggrin), keratins (keratin 10, 5), and their mRNA expression. 
This was done in the skin of five breeds of dogs including seven poodles, six
golden retrievers, six Shih Tzus, four pugs, and four Labrador retrievers.
Epidermal thickness of the stratum corneum and nucleated epidermal layer was
significantly different. The greatest thickness was observed in the digital web
area and the thinnest epidermis was in the axilla. Epidermal thickness was also
significantly different between the breeds (p < 0.05). Immunohistochemical
staining scores revealed significant decreases of involucrin, filaggrin, and
keratin 10 in the ventral and weight-bearing sites, and a relative increase of
keratin 5 (p < 0.05). q-PCR analysis showed that their the levels of mRNA were
positively correlated with expression of the corresponding proteins in skin
samples (p < 0.05). The present study is the first to report the relationship
between epidermal gene expression and histologic morphology of the skin in normal
dogs. Further studies will be essential to fully understand the pathogenesis of
skin barrier dysfunctions in canines.


PMCID: PMC3386341
PMID: 22705738  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1222. Nat Med. 2012 Jul;18(7):1052-9. doi: 10.1038/nm.2795.

Profiling of residual breast cancers after neoadjuvant chemotherapy identifies
DUSP4 deficiency as a mechanism of drug resistance.

Balko JM(1), Cook RS, Vaught DB, Kuba MG, Miller TW, Bhola NE, Sanders ME,
Granja-Ingram NM, Smith JJ, Meszoely IM, Salter J, Dowsett M, Stemke-Hale K,
González-Angulo AM, Mills GB, Pinto JA, Gómez HL, Arteaga CL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt-Ingram Comprehensive Cancer Center,
Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee, USA.

Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) induces a pathological complete response (pCR) in 
~30% of patients with breast cancer. However, many patients have residual cancer 
after chemotherapy, which correlates with a higher risk of metastatic recurrence 
and poorer outcome than those who achieve a pCR. We hypothesized that molecular
profiling of tumors after NAC would identify genes associated with drug
resistance. Digital transcript counting was used to profile surgically resected
breast cancers after NAC. Low concentrations of dual specificity protein
phosphatase 4 (DUSP4), an ERK phosphatase, correlated with high post-NAC tumor
cell proliferation and with basal-like breast cancer (BLBC) status. BLBC had
higher DUSP4 promoter methylation and gene expression patterns of Ras-ERK pathway
activation relative to other breast cancer subtypes. DUSP4 overexpression
increased chemotherapy-induced apoptosis, whereas DUSP4 depletion dampened the
response to chemotherapy. Reduced DUSP4 expression in primary tumors after NAC
was associated with treatment-refractory high Ki-67 scores and shorter
recurrence-free survival. Finally, inhibition of mitogen-activated protein kinase
kinase (MEK) synergized with docetaxel treatment in BLBC xenografts. Thus, DUSP4 
downregulation activates the Ras-ERK pathway in BLBC, resulting in an attenuated 
response to anti-cancer chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1038/nm.2795 
PMCID: PMC3693569
PMID: 22683778  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1223. Annu Rev Genomics Hum Genet. 2012;13:285-306. doi:
10.1146/annurev-genom-090711-163806. Epub 2012 May 29.

Genomic analysis of fetal nucleic acids in maternal blood.

Lo YM(1), Chiu RW.

Author information: 
(1)Li Ka Shing Institute of Health Sciences and Department of Chemical Pathology,
Prince of Wales Hospital, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, New
Territories, Hong Kong SAR, China. loym@cuhk.edu.hk

The 15 years since the discovery of fetal DNA in maternal plasma have witnessed
remarkable developments in noninvasive prenatal diagnosis. An understanding of
biological parameters governing this phenomenon, such as the concentration and
molecular size of circulating fetal DNA, has guided its diagnostic applications. 
Early efforts focused on the detection of paternally inherited sequences, which
were absent in the maternal genome, in maternal plasma. Recent developments in
precise measurement technologies such as digital polymerase chain reaction (PCR) 
have allowed the detection of minute allelic imbalances in plasma and have
catalyzed analysis of single-gene disorders such as the hemoglobinopathies and
hemophilia. The advent of massively parallel sequencing has enabled the robust
detection of fetal trisomies in maternal plasma. Recent proof-of-concept studies 
have detected a chromosomal translocation and a microdeletion and have deduced a 
genome-wide genetic map of a fetus from maternal plasma. Understanding the
ethical, legal, and social aspects in light of such rapid developments is thus a 
priority for future research.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-genom-090711-163806 
PMID: 22657389  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1224. Genome Med. 2012 May 28;4(5):46. doi: 10.1186/gm345.

Non-invasive prenatal diagnosis of aneuploidies: new technologies and clinical
applications.

Papageorgiou EA(1), Patsalis PC.

Author information: 
(1)The Cyprus Institute of Neurology and Genetics, PO Box 23462, 1683, Nicosia,
Cyprus. patsalis@cing.ac.cy.

Non-invasive prenatal diagnosis (NIPD) has substantial medical importance as it
targets the development of safer and more effective methods to avoid the risk of 
fetal loss associated with currently used invasive methods. Several approaches
have been demonstrated as being proof-of concept for NIPD of chromosomal
aneuploidies. These approaches include cell-based and cell-free detection
methods, involving the investigation of fetal cells in the maternal circulation, 
formaldehyde treatment of maternal plasma, DNA methylation studies using sodium
bisulfite or restriction enzymes, protein-based studies, identification of
fetal-specific mRNAs and digital polymerase chain reaction (PCR) approaches, and 
recently next-generation sequencing and methylated DNA immunoprecipitation
real-time quantitative PCR-based approaches. Although all these NIPD methods have
both advantages and limitations, some are moving closer to clinical
implementation. Biotechnology companies dedicated to the development of NIPD
tests such as the sequencing- or methylation-based approaches are finalizing
large clinical trials. It is expected that these new technologies will facilitate
safer, more sensitive and accurate prenatal diagnostic tests in the near future. 
In this review, we highlight the most recent advances in methods for NIPD of
aneuploidies, and we discuss their future implications in clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1186/gm345 
PMCID: PMC3506912
PMID: 22640877 


1225. Aquat Toxicol. 2012 Sep 15;120-121:54-8. doi: 10.1016/j.aquatox.2012.04.013. Epub
2012 Apr 28.

Deep sequencing-based transcriptome profiling analysis of Oryzias melastigma
exposed to PFOS.

Huang Q(1), Dong S, Fang C, Wu X, Ye T, Lin Y.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Urban Environment and Health, Institute of Urban
Environment, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xiamen 361021, PR China.

Oryzias melastigma is a newly emerging marine fish model. However, the
application of this model has been restricted because of the lack of genomic
information. Perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS), a persistent organic pollutant, is
widely distributed in the estuarine/marine environment. The toxicological effects
of PFOS on organisms, especially on marine fish species, remain largely unknown. 
In this study, the transcriptome of O. melastigma was sequenced using newly
developed sequencing technology (Illumina RNA-seq). A total of 145,394 unigenes
were obtained with 565 bp of unigene N50. These genes were further enriched in
various molecular pathways involved in the toxicological response. We also
investigated the transcriptional response of O. melastigma embryos after PFOS
exposure from 2 days post fertilization (dpf) to 6 dpf by digital gene expression
(DGE) technology. The differentially expressed genes were related to
neurobehavioral defects, mitochondrial dysfunction and the metabolism of proteins
and fats. A further quantitative RT-PCR study showed the down-regulation of ATP
synthase and the up-regulation of uncoupling protein 2 (UCP2), which indicated
mitochondrial dysfunction. In all, the transcriptome data represent the most
comprehensive expressed gene catalog for O. melastigma and will serve as an
important reference for various marine fish that are yet to be sequenced. The
transcriptome profiling of O. melastigma embryos after exposure to PFOS are also 
expected to improve our current understanding of the molecular toxicology of
PFOS.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aquatox.2012.04.013 
PMID: 22613580  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1226. PLoS One. 2012;7(5):e36471. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0036471. Epub 2012 May 4.

Digital gene expression profiling by 5'-end sequencing of cDNAs during
reprogramming in the moss Physcomitrella patens.

Nishiyama T(1), Miyawaki K, Ohshima M, Thompson K, Nagashima A, Hasebe M, Kurata 
T.

Author information: 
(1)Exploratory Research for Advanced Technology, Japan Science and Technology
Agency, Okazaki, Japan. tomoakin@staff.kanazawa-u.ac.jp

Stem cells self-renew and repeatedly produce differentiated cells during
development and growth. The differentiated cells can be converted into stem cells
in some metazoans and land plants with appropriate treatments. After leaves of
the moss Physcomitrella patens are excised, leaf cells reenter the cell cycle and
commence tip growth, which is characteristic of stem cells called chloronema
apical cells. To understand the underlying molecular mechanisms, a digital gene
expression profiling method using mRNA 5'-end tags (5'-DGE) was established. The 
5'-DGE method produced reproducible data with a dynamic range of four orders that
correlated well with qRT-PCR measurements. After the excision of leaves, the
expression levels of 11% of the transcripts changed significantly within 6 h.
Genes involved in stress responses and proteolysis were induced and those
involved in metabolism, including photosynthesis, were reduced. The later
processes of reprogramming involved photosynthesis recovery and higher
macromolecule biosynthesis, including of RNA and proteins. Auxin and cytokinin
signaling pathways, which are activated during stem cell formation via callus in 
flowering plants, are also activated during reprogramming in P. patens, although 
no exogenous phytohormone is applied in the moss system, suggesting that an
intrinsic phytohormone regulatory system may be used in the moss.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0036471 
PMCID: PMC3344888
PMID: 22574165  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1227. BMC Genomics. 2012 May 8;13:175. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-13-175.

Phylogenomic analysis of UDP glycosyltransferase 1 multigene family in Linum
usitatissimum identified genes with varied expression patterns.

Barvkar VT(1), Pardeshi VC, Kale SM, Kadoo NY, Gupta VS.

Author information: 
(1)Plant Molecular Biology Group, Biochemical Sciences Division, National
Chemical Laboratory, Pune, India.

BACKGROUND: The glycosylation process, catalyzed by ubiquitous
glycosyltransferase (GT) family enzymes, is a prevalent modification of plant
secondary metabolites that regulates various functions such as hormone
homeostasis, detoxification of xenobiotics and biosynthesis and storage of
secondary metabolites. Flax (Linum usitatissimum L.) is a commercially grown
oilseed crop, important because of its essential fatty acids and health promoting
lignans. Identification and characterization of UDP glycosyltransferase (UGT)
genes from flax could provide valuable basic information about this important
gene family and help to explain the seed specific glycosylated metabolite
accumulation and other processes in plants. Plant genome sequencing projects are 
useful to discover complexity within this gene family and also pave way for the
development of functional genomics approaches.
RESULTS: Taking advantage of the newly assembled draft genome sequence of flax,
we identified 137 UDP glycosyltransferase (UGT) genes from flax using a conserved
signature motif. Phylogenetic analysis of these protein sequences clustered them 
into 14 major groups (A-N). Expression patterns of these genes were investigated 
using publicly available expressed sequence tag (EST), microarray data and
reverse transcription quantitative real time PCR (RT-qPCR). Seventy-three per
cent of these genes (100 out of 137) showed expression evidence in 15 tissues
examined and indicated varied expression profiles. The RT-qPCR results of 10
selected genes were also coherent with the digital expression analysis.
Interestingly, five duplicated UGT genes were identified, which showed
differential expression in various tissues. Of the seven intron loss/gain
positions detected, two intron positions were conserved among most of the UGTs,
although a clear relationship about the evolution of these genes could not be
established. Comparison of the flax UGTs with orthologs from four other sequenced
dicot genomes indicated that seven UGTs were flax diverged.
CONCLUSIONS: Flax has a large number of UGT genes including few flax diverged
ones. Phylogenetic analysis and expression profiles of these genes identified
tissue and condition specific repertoire of UGT genes from this crop. This study 
would facilitate precise selection of candidate genes and their further
characterization of substrate specificities and in planta functions.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-13-175 
PMCID: PMC3412749
PMID: 22568875  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1228. Biosens Bioelectron. 2012 Jun-Jul;36(1):230-5. doi: 10.1016/j.bios.2012.04.024.
Epub 2012 Apr 27.

Macro to microfluidics system for biological environmental monitoring.

Delattre C(1), Allier CP, Fouillet Y, Jary D, Bottausci F, Bouvier D, Delapierre 
G, Quinaud M, Rival A, Davoust L, Peponnet C.

Author information: 
(1)CEA, LETI, MINATEC Campus, Microtechnologies for Biology and Healthcare
Department, Grenoble, France.

Biological environmental monitoring (BEM) is a growing field of research which
challenges both microfluidics and system automation. The aim is to develop a
transportable system with analysis throughput which satisfies the requirements:
(i) fully autonomous, (ii) complete protocol integration from sample collection
to final analysis, (iii) detection of diluted molecules or biological species in 
a large real life environmental sample volume, (iv) robustness and (v)
flexibility and versatility. This paper discusses all these specifications in
order to define an original fluidic architecture based on three connected
modules, a sampling module, a sample preparation module and a detection module.
The sample preparation module highly concentrates on the pathogens present in a
few mL samples of complex and unknown solutions and purifies the pathogens'
nucleic acids into a few μL of a controlled buffer. To do so, a two-step
concentration protocol based on magnetic beads is automated in a reusable
macro-to-micro fluidic system. The detection module is a PCR based miniaturized
platform using digital microfluidics, where reactions are performed in 64 nL
droplets handled by electrowetting on dielectric (EWOD) actuation. The design and
manufacture of the two modules are reported as well as their respective
performances. To demonstrate the integration of the complete protocol in the same
system, first results of pathogen detection are shown.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bios.2012.04.024 
PMID: 22565093  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1229. BMC Med Genomics. 2012 May 4;5:15. doi: 10.1186/1755-8794-5-15.

Fibroblasts from phenotypically normal palmar fascia exhibit molecular profiles
highly similar to fibroblasts from active disease in Dupuytren's Contracture.

Satish L(1), LaFramboise WA, Johnson S, Vi L, Njarlangattil A, Raykha C,
Krill-Burger JM, Gallo PH, O'Gorman DB, Gan BS, Baratz ME, Ehrlich GD, Kathju S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Plastic Surgery, University of Pittsburgh
Medical Center, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. latsat@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Dupuytren's contracture (DC) is a fibroproliferative disorder
characterized by the progressive development of a scar-like collagen-rich cord
that affects the palmar fascia of the hand and leads to digital flexion
contractures. DC is most commonly treated by surgical resection of the diseased
tissue, but has a high reported recurrence rate ranging from 27% to 80%. We
sought to determine if the transcriptomic profiles of fibroblasts derived from
DC-affected palmar fascia, adjacent phenotypically normal palmar fascia, and
non-DC palmar fascial tissues might provide mechanistic clues to understanding
the puzzle of disease predisposition and recurrence in DC.
METHODS: To achieve this, total RNA was obtained from fibroblasts derived from
primary DC-affected palmar fascia, patient-matched unaffected palmar fascia, and 
palmar fascia from non-DC patients undergoing carpal tunnel release (6 patients
in each group). These cells were grown on a type-1 collagen substrate (to better 
mimic their in vivo environments). Microarray analyses were subsequently
performed using Illumina BeadChip arrays to compare the transcriptomic profiles
of these three cell populations. Data were analyzed using Significance Analysis
of Microarrays (SAM v3.02), hierarchical clustering, concordance mapping and Venn
diagram.
RESULTS: We found that the transcriptomic profiles of DC-disease fibroblasts and 
fibroblasts from unaffected fascia of DC patients exhibited a much greater
overlap than fibroblasts derived from the palmar fascia of patients undergoing
carpal tunnel release. Quantitative real time RT-PCR confirmed the differential
expression of select genes validating the microarray data analyses. These data
are consistent with the hypothesis that predisposition and recurrence in DC may
stem, at least in part, from intrinsic similarities in the basal gene expression 
of diseased and phenotypically unaffected palmar fascia fibroblasts. These data
also demonstrate that a collagen-rich environment differentially alters gene
expression in these cells. In addition, Ingenuity pathway analysis of the
specific biological pathways that differentiate DC-derived cells from carpal
tunnel-derived cells has identified the potential involvement of microRNAs in
this fibroproliferative disorder.
CONCLUSIONS: These data show that the transcriptomic profiles of DC-disease
fibroblasts and fibroblasts from unaffected palmar fascia in DC patients are
highly similar, and differ significantly from the transcriptomic profiles of
fibroblasts from the palmar fascia of patients undergoing carpal tunnel release.

DOI: 10.1186/1755-8794-5-15 
PMCID: PMC3375203
PMID: 22559715  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1230. PLoS One. 2012;7(4):e36064. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0036064. Epub 2012 Apr 30.

Massively parallel haplotyping on microscopic beads for the high-throughput phase
analysis of single molecules.

Boulanger J(1), Muresan L, Tiemann-Boege I.

Author information: 
(1)Cell and Tissue Imaging Core, Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique,
Institut Curie, Paris, France.

In spite of the many advances in haplotyping methods, it is still very difficult 
to characterize rare haplotypes in tissues and different environmental samples or
to accurately assess the haplotype diversity in large mixtures. This would
require a haplotyping method capable of analyzing the phase of single molecules
with an unprecedented throughput. Here we describe such a haplotyping method
capable of analyzing in parallel hundreds of thousands single molecules in one
experiment. In this method, multiple PCR reactions amplify different polymorphic 
regions of a single DNA molecule on a magnetic bead compartmentalized in an
emulsion drop. The allelic states of the amplified polymorphisms are identified
with fluorescently labeled probes that are then decoded from images taken of the 
arrayed beads by a microscope. This method can evaluate the phase of up to 3
polymorphisms separated by up to 5 kilobases in hundreds of thousands single
molecules. We tested the sensitivity of the method by measuring the number of
mutant haplotypes synthesized by four different commercially available enzymes:
Phusion, Platinum Taq, Titanium Taq, and Phire. The digital nature of the method 
makes it highly sensitive to detecting haplotype ratios of less than 1:10,000. We
also accurately quantified chimera formation during the exponential phase of PCR 
by different DNA polymerases.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0036064 
PMCID: PMC3340404
PMID: 22558329  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1231. Fetal Diagn Ther. 2012;31(4):244-7. doi: 10.1159/000337544. Epub 2012 Apr 25.

Digital PCR for noninvasive detection of aneuploidy: power analysis equations for
feasibility.

Evans MI(1), Wright DA, Pergament E, Cuckle HS, Nicolaides KH.

Author information: 
(1)Prenatal Diagnosis, Comprehensive Genetics, Columbia University, New York, NY 
10065, USA. Evans@compregen.com

OBJECTIVE: To determine the feasibility of digital PCR analysis for noninvasive
prenatal diagnosis of trisomy 21.
METHODS: Through power equations, we modeled the number of wells necessary to
determine the feasibility of digital PCR as a practical method for trisomy 21
risk assessment.
RESULTS: The number of wells needed is a direct correlate of the ability to
isolate free fetal DNA. If a 20% fetal DNA enhancement can be achieved, then
2,609 counts would be sufficient to achieve a 99% detection rate for a 1%
false-positive rate and potentially feasible with readily available plates.
However, if only a 2% increase is seen, then 220,816 counts will be necessary,
and over 110,000 would be needed just to achieve 95% for a 5% false-positive rate
- both far beyond current commercially available technology.
CONCLUSION: There are several noninvasive prenatal diagnostic methods which may
reach commercialization; all have differing potential advantages and
disadvantages. Digital PCR is potentially a cheaper methodology for trisomy 21,
but it is too early to determine the optimal method.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000337544 
PMID: 22538702  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1232. Physiol Genomics. 2012 Jun 1;44(11):622-8. doi:
10.1152/physiolgenomics.00009.2012. Epub 2012 Apr 24.

Multiplexed digital quantification of binge-like alcohol-mediated alterations in 
maternal uterine angiogenic mRNA transcriptome.

Ramadoss J(1), Magness RR.

Author information: 
(1)Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston,
Texas 77555, USA. jaramado@utmb.edu

Genomic studies on fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD) have utilized either
genome-wide microarrays/bioinformatics or targeted real-time PCR (RT-PCR). We
utilized herein for the first time a novel digital approach with high throughput 
as well as the capability to focus on one physiological system. The aim of the
present study was to investigate alcohol-induced alterations in uterine
angiogenesis-related mRNA abundance using digital mRNA technology. Four
biological and three technical replicates of uterine arterial endothelial cells
from third-trimester ewes were fluorescence-activated cell sorted, validated, and
treated without or with binge-like alcohol. A capture probe covalently bound to
an oligonucleotide containing biotin and a color-coded reporter probe were
designed for 85 angiogenesis-related genes and analyzed with the Nanostring
nCounter system. Twenty genes were downregulated (↓) and two upregulated (↑),
including angiogenic growth factors/receptors (↓placental growth factor),
adhesion molecules (↓angiopoietin-like-3; ↓collagen-18A1; ↓endoglin),
proteases/matrix proteins/inhibitors (↓alanyl aminopeptidase; ↓collagen-4A3;
↓heparanase; ↓plasminogen, ↑plasminogen activator urokinase; ↓platelet factor-4; 
↓plexin domain containing-1; ↓tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-3),
transcription/signaling molecules (↓heart and neural crest derivatives-2;
↓DNA-binding protein inhibitor; ↓NOTCH-4; ↓ribosomal protein-L13a1; ↓ribosomal
protein large-P1), cytokines/chemokines (↓interleukin-1B), and miscellaneous
growth factors (↓leptin; ↓platelet-derived growth factor-α); ↓transforming growth
factor (TGF-α; ↑TGF-β receptor-1). These novel data show significant detrimental 
alcohol effects on genes controlling angiogenesis supporting a mechanistic role
for abnormal uteroplacental vascular development in FASD. The tripartite digital 
gene expression system is therefore a valuable tool to answer many additional
questions about FASD from both mechanistic as well as ameliorative perspectives.

DOI: 10.1152/physiolgenomics.00009.2012 
PMCID: PMC3426435
PMID: 22535877  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1233. BMC Plant Biol. 2012 Apr 21;12:53. doi: 10.1186/1471-2229-12-53.

Transcriptome analysis of stem development in the tumourous stem mustard Brassica
juncea var. tumida Tsen et Lee by RNA sequencing.

Sun Q(1), Zhou G, Cai Y, Fan Y, Zhu X, Liu Y, He X, Shen J, Jiang H, Hu D, Pan Z,
Xiang L, He G, Dong D, Yang J.

Author information: 
(1)College of Bioinformation, Chongqing University of Posts and
Telecommunications, Chongqing 400065, China.

Erratum in
    BMC Plant Biol. 2013;13:90.

BACKGROUND: Tumourous stem mustard (Brassica juncea var. tumida Tsen et Lee) is
an economically and nutritionally important vegetable crop of the Cruciferae
family that also provides the raw material for Fuling mustard. The genetics
breeding, physiology, biochemistry and classification of mustards have been
extensively studied, but little information is available on tumourous stem
mustard at the molecular level. To gain greater insight into the molecular
mechanisms underlying stem swelling in this vegetable and to provide additional
information for molecular research and breeding, we sequenced the transcriptome
of tumourous stem mustard at various stem developmental stages and compared it
with that of a mutant variety lacking swollen stems.
RESULTS: Using Illumina short-read technology with a tag-based digital gene
expression (DGE) system, we performed de novo transcriptome assembly and gene
expression analysis. In our analysis, we assembled genetic information for
tumourous stem mustard at various stem developmental stages. In addition, we
constructed five DGE libraries, which covered the strains Yong'an and Dayejie at 
various development stages. Illumina sequencing identified 146,265 unigenes,
including 11,245 clusters and 135,020 singletons. The unigenes were subjected to 
a BLAST search and annotated using the GO and KO databases. We also compared the 
gene expression profiles of three swollen stem samples with those of two
non-swollen stem samples. A total of 1,042 genes with significantly different
expression levels occurring simultaneously in the six comparison groups were
screened out. Finally, the altered expression levels of a number of randomly
selected genes were confirmed by quantitative real-time PCR.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data provide comprehensive gene expression information at the
transcriptional level and the first insight into the understanding of the
molecular mechanisms and regulatory pathways of stem swelling and development in 
this plant, and will help define new mechanisms of stem development in non-model 
plant organisms.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2229-12-53 
PMCID: PMC3349559
PMID: 22520079  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1234. Bioinformatics. 2012 Jun 1;28(11):1546-8. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/bts188.
Epub 2012 Apr 17.

NanoStringNorm: an extensible R package for the pre-processing of NanoString mRNA
and miRNA data.

Waggott D(1), Chu K, Yin S, Wouters BG, Liu FF, Boutros PC.

Author information: 
(1)Informatics and Biocomputing Platform, Ontario Institute for Cancer Research, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

MOTIVATION: The NanoString nCounter Platform is a new and promising technology
for measuring nucleic acid abundances. It has several advantages over PCR-based
techniques, including avoidance of amplification, direct sequence interrogation
and digital detection for absolute quantification. These features minimize
aspects of experimental error and hold promise for dealing with challenging
experimental conditions such as archival formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded
samples. However, systematic inter-sample technical artifacts caused by
variability in sample preservation, bio-molecular extraction and platform
fluctuations must be removed to ensure robust data.
RESULTS: To facilitate this process and to address these issues for NanoString
datasets, we have written a pre-processing package called NanoStringNorm in the R
statistical language. Key features include an extensible environment for method
comparison and new algorithm development, integrated gene and sample diagnostics,
and facilitated downstream statistical analysis. The package is open-source, is
available through the CRAN package repository, includes unit-tests to ensure
numerical accuracy, and provides visual and numeric diagnostics.
AVAILABILITY: http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/NanoStringNorm

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/bts188 
PMCID: PMC3356845
PMID: 22513995  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1235. Am J Pathol. 2012 Jun;180(6):2222-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2012.02.018. Epub 2012
Apr 10.

NOX5 expression is increased in intramyocardial blood vessels and cardiomyocytes 
after acute myocardial infarction in humans.

Hahn NE(1), Meischl C, Kawahara T, Musters RJ, Verhoef VM, van der Velden J, Vonk
AB, Paulus WJ, van Rossum AC, Niessen HW, Krijnen PA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands. n.hahn@vumc.nl

Reactive oxygen species producing NADPH oxidases play important roles under
different (patho)physiological conditions. NOX1, NOX2, and NOX4 are important
sources of reactive oxygen species in the heart, but knowledge of the
calcium-dependent NOX5 in the heart is lacking. The presence of NOX5 was studied 
via RT-PCR in heart tissue from patients with end-stage heart failure; the tissue
was obtained during cardiac transplantation surgery. NOX5 positivity and cellular
localization were studied via IHC and digital-imaging microscopy in heart tissues
of patients who did not have heart disease and in infarction areas of patients
who died of myocardial infarctions of different durations. Furthermore, NOX5
expression was analyzed in vitro by using Western blot analysis. NOX5 RNA was
found in the hearts of controls and patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy. In
controls, NOX5 localized to the endothelium of a limited number of
intramyocardial blood vessels and to a limited number of scattered
cardiomyocytes. In infarcted hearts, NOX5 expression increased, especially in
infarctions >12 hours, which manifested as an increase in NOX5-positive
intramyocardial blood vessels, as well as in endothelium, smooth muscle, and
cardiomyocytes. NOX5 was found in cardiomyocyte cytoplasm, plasma membrane,
intercalated disks, and cross striations. Western blot analysis confirmed NOX5
expression in isolated human cardiomyocytes. For the first time to our knowledge,
we demonstrate NOX5 expression in human intramyocardial blood vessels and
cardiomyocytes, with significant increases in the affected myocardium after acute
myocardial infarction.

Copyright © 2012 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2012.02.018 
PMID: 22503554  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1236. J Biomed Mater Res A. 2012 Jul;100(7):1761-9. doi: 10.1002/jbm.a.33286. Epub 2012
Apr 4.

Overexpression of synoviolin facilitates the formation of a functional synovial
biomembrane.

Chen G(1), Zhang SX, Tao ZF, Xiong Y, Sun W, Lu J, Pan F, Zhang ZZ.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Analysis Center, Basic Medical Sciences, Third Military Medical
University of Chinese PLA, Chongqing, China.

Digital flexor tendon repair poses a significant challenge for hand surgeons.
Currently, extrasynovial tendon grafts are frequently used in clinical settings
to bridge flexor tendon defects. However, the healing process is always
accompanied by postoperative adhesion. This is mostly due to the fact that no
synovial membrane covers the extrasynovial tendon surface, in contrast to the
intrasynovial tendon. In this study, we present an efficient method of developing
a functional synovial biomembrane on the surface of the extrasynovial tendon.
Synoviocytes were isolated from the knee joint of a Japanese white rabbit. After 
being infected with lentivirus, the over-expression of synoviolin in these
synoviocytes was confirmed by semi-quantitative RT-PCR and western blotting.
Cellular proliferation and increased hyaluronic acid secretion were confirmed in 
the synoviolin over-expressing synoviocytes by MTT-based method, cell cycle
assays and ELISA. Furthermore, the synoviolin over-expressing synoviocytes were
co-cultured with extrasynovial tendons that were harvested from the hind leg of
rabbits. After being co-cultured in vitro for 3 and 7 days, these infected
synoviocytes were found to accelerate the formation of a biomembrane on the
tendon surface compared to the control group. More importantly, Alcian blue
staining confirmed the ability of this cultured biomembrane to produce specific
matrices containing acidic carboxyl mucopolysaccharides (mainly hyaluronic acid).
All these results demonstrate that the over-expression of synoviolin stimulates
the proliferation and HA secretion of synoviocytes and facilitates the formation 
of a functional synovial biomembrane.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jbm.a.33286 
PMID: 22488929  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1237. PLoS One. 2012;7(3):e33278. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0033278. Epub 2012 Mar 30.

Selection of reference genes for quantitative gene expression studies in
Platycladus orientalis (Cupressaceae) Using real-time PCR.

Chang E(1), Shi S, Liu J, Cheng T, Xue L, Yang X, Yang W, Lan Q, Jiang Z.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Tree Genetics and Breeding, Research Institute of
Forestry, Chinese Academy of Forestry, Beijing, People's Republic of China.

Platycladus orientalis is a tree species that is highly resistant, widely
adaptable, and long-lived, with lifespans of even thousands of years. To explore 
the mechanisms underlying these characteristics, gene expressions have been
investigated at the transcriptome level by RNA-seq combined with a digital gene
expression (DGE) technique. So, it is crucial to have a reliable set of reference
genes to normalize the expressions of genes in P. orientalis under various
conditions using the most accurate and sensitive method of quantitative real-time
PCR (qRT-PCR). In this study, we selected 10 reference gene candidates from
transcriptome data of P. orientalis, and examined their expression profiles by
qRT-PCR using 29 different samples of P. orientalis, which were collected from
plants of different ages, different tissues, and plants subjected to different
treatments including cold, heat, salinity, polyethylene glycol (PEG), and
abscisic acid (ABA). Three analytical software packages (geNorm, Bestkeeper, and 
NormFinder) were used to assess the stability of gene expression. The results
showed that ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2 (UBC) and alpha-tubulin (aTUB) were
the optimum pair of reference genes at all developmental stages and under all
stress conditions. ACT7 was the most stable gene across different tissues and
cold-treated samples, while UBQ was the most stably expressed reference gene for 
NaCl- and ABA-treated samples. In parallel, aTUB and UBC were used singly or in
combination as reference genes to examine the expression levels of NAC (a homolog
of AtNAC2) in plants subjected to various treatments with qRT-PCR. The results
further proved the reliability of the two selected reference genes. Our study
will benefit future research on the expression of genes in response to
stress/senescence in P. orientalis and other members of the Cupressaceae.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0033278 
PMCID: PMC3316566
PMID: 22479379  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1238. Am J Physiol Gastrointest Liver Physiol. 2012 Jun 1;302(11):G1274-81. doi:
10.1152/ajpgi.00532.2011. Epub 2012 Mar 29.

PDGF-α stimulates intestinal epithelial cell turnover after massive small bowel
resection in a rat.

Sukhotnik I(1), Mogilner JG, Pollak Y, Blumenfeld S, Bejar J, Coran AG.

Author information: 
(1)Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, the Ruth and Bruce Rappaport Faculty 
of Medicine, Laboratory of Intestinal Adaptation and Recovery, Bnai Zion Medical 
Center, Haifa, Israel. igor-dr@internet-zahav.net

Numerous cytokines have been shown to affect epithelial cell differentiation and 
proliferation through epithelial-mesenchymal interaction. Growing evidence
suggests that platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) signaling is an important
mediator of these interactions. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the
effect of PDGF-α on enterocyte turnover in a rat model of short bowel syndrome
(SBS). Male rats were divided into four groups: Sham rats underwent bowel
transection, Sham-PDGF-α rats underwent bowel transection and were treated with
PDGF-α, SBS rats underwent a 75% bowel resection, and SBS-PDGF-α rats underwent
bowel resection and were treated with PDGF-α. Parameters of intestinal
adaptation, enterocyte proliferation and apoptosis were determined at euthanasia.
Illumina's Digital Gene Expression analysis was used to determine PDGF-related
gene expression profiling. PDGF-α and PDGF-α receptor (PDGFR-α) expression was
determined by real-time PCR. Western blotting was used to determine p-ERK,
Akt1/2/3, bax, and bcl-2 protein levels. SBS rats demonstrated a significant
increase in PDGF-α and PDGFR-α expression in jejunum and ileum compared with sham
animals. SBS-PDGF-α rats demonstrated a significant increase in bowel and mucosal
weight, villus height, and crypt depth in jejunum and ileum compared with SBS
animals. PDGF-α receptor expression in crypts increased in SBS rats (vs. sham)
and was accompanied by an increased cell proliferation following PDGF-α
administration. A significant decrease in cell apoptosis in this group was
correlated with lower bax protein levels. In conclusion, in a rat model of SBS,
PDGF-α stimulates enterocyte turnover, which is correlated with upregulated
PDGF-α receptor expression in the remaining small intestine.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpgi.00532.2011 
PMID: 22461028  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1239. J Dairy Sci. 2012 Apr;95(4):1821-30. doi: 10.3168/jds.2011-4754.

An experimental infection model to induce digital dermatitis infection in cattle.

Gomez A(1), Cook NB, Bernardoni ND, Rieman J, Dusick AF, Hartshorn R, Socha MT,
Read DH, Döpfer D.

Author information: 
(1)School of Veterinary Medicine, University of Wisconsin, Madison 53706-1102,
USA. gomez3@wisc.edu

Bovine digital dermatitis (DD), also known as papillomatous digital dermatitis
(foot warts), has been recognized as a major cause of lameness in cattle, with
important economic and welfare consequences. The evaluation of therapeutic and
preventive interventions aiming to control DD infections in dairy cattle is often
challenged by the complex multifactorial etiology of the disease. An experimental
infection model to induce acute DD lesions in a controlled environment is
proposed. The goal was to provide a standard way of reproducing DD infections
independent of external factors that could confound the natural course of the
disease, such as management practices or infection pressure, resulting in
transmission of DD between animals. A group of 4 yearling Holstein heifers free
of any clinical evidence of hoof disease was recruited from a commercial dairy
farm and housed in an experimental facility in 1 pen with slatted flooring. The
hind feet were wrapped to mimic conditions of prolonged moisture (maceration) and
reduced access to air (closure) and inoculated at the heel and dewclaw areas with
a homogenate of a naturally occurring DD lesion skin biopsy or a culture broth of
Treponema spp. After a period of 12 to 25 d, 4 of 6 and 1 of 4 dewclaw areas
inoculated with biopsied DD lesion or a Treponema spp. culture, respectively, had
gross lesions compatible with DD. Histopathology confirmed the gross diagnosis in
the sites inoculated with tissue homogenate. In the site inoculated with
Treponema spp. culture broth, histopathology revealed an incipient DD lesion.
Treponema spp. were detected by PCR in both naturally occurring DD homogenate and
Treponema spp. culture broth inoculation sites. An experimental infection model
to induce acute DD in cattle was developed, which may be used to evaluate
interventions to control DD and study the pathogenesis of this infectious hoof
disease in a controlled manner.

Copyright © 2012 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc.
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2011-4754 
PMID: 22459830  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1240. Clin Chem. 2012 Jun;58(6):1026-32. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2011.178939. Epub 2012
Mar 26.

Digital PCR analysis of maternal plasma for noninvasive detection of sickle cell 
anemia.

Barrett AN(1), McDonnell TC, Chan KC, Chitty LS.

Author information: 
(1)NE Thames Regional Genetics Service Laboratories, Great Ormond Street Hospital
for Children, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Cell-free fetal DNA (cffDNA) constitutes approximately 10% of the
cell-free DNA in maternal plasma and is a suitable source of fetal genetic
material for noninvasive prenatal diagnosis (NIPD). The objective of this study
was to determine the feasibility of using digital PCR for NIPD in pregnancies at 
risk of sickle cell anemia.
METHODS: Minor-groove binder (MGB) TaqMan probes were designed to discriminate
between wild-type hemoglobin A and mutant (hemoglobin S) alleles encoded by the
HBB (hemoglobin, beta) gene in cffDNA isolated from maternal plasma samples
obtained from pregnancies at risk of sickle cell anemia. The fractional fetal DNA
concentration was assessed in male-bearing pregnancies with a digital PCR assay
for the Y chromosome-specific marker DYS14. In pregnancies with a female fetus, a
panel of biallelic insertion/deletion polymorphism (indel) markers was developed 
for the quantification of the fetal DNA fraction. We used digital real-time PCR
to analyze the dosage of the variant encoding hemoglobin S relative to that
encoding wild-type hemoglobin A.
RESULTS: The sickle cell genotype was correctly determined in 82% (37 of 45) of
male fetuses and 75% (15 of 20) of female fetuses. Mutation status was determined
correctly in 100% of the cases (25 samples) with fractional fetal DNA
concentrations >7%. The panel of indels was informative in 65% of the
female-bearing pregnancies.
CONCLUSIONS: Digital PCR can be used to determine the genotype of fetuses at risk
for sickle cell anemia. Optimization of the fractional fetal DNA concentration is
essential. More-informative indel markers are needed for this assay's
comprehensive use in cases of a female fetus.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2011.178939 
PMID: 22451622  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1241. Zhongguo Wei Zhong Bing Ji Jiu Yi Xue. 2012 Mar;24(3):149-53.

[Expression of ubiquitin in the spleen and its influence on the dendritic cell
immunomodulation function in multiple organ dysfunction syndrome in mice].

[Article in Chinese]

Qu BJ(1), Lu JY, Liu Q, Wang HW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, First Hospital Affiliated to General Hospital of PLA,
Beijing 100048, China.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the expression change in ubiquitin (Ub) in the spleen and
its significance in multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) in mice, and to
study the effects of ubiquitination of major histocompatibility complex II
(MHCII) on the activity and immunomodulation function of splenic dendritic cell
(DC).
METHODS: Two hundred and ten mice were divided into the normal control group (n =
30) and MODS group (n = 180) according to the method of random digital table, and
MODS model was replicated by intraperitoneal injection of zymosan. The MODS group
mice were further divided evenly into 6, 12, 24, 48-hour and 5-7-day and
10-12-day groups. Ub protein and expression of CD11c⁺DC and MHCII molecule I-A(b)
were examined using immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence methods. Ub mRNA 
expression in the spleen was measured by real-time quantitative reverse
transcription--polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
RESULTS: (1)Immunohistochemistry results showed: the number of Ub positive cells 
in the spleen increased significantly at 6 hours in MODS group compared with that
of the normal control group, and it reached the peak at 24 hours [(16.83 ± 0.38)%
vs. (8.60 ± 0.86)%, P < 0.05] and then decreased gradually. At 10-12 days, the
number of Ub positive cells decreased significantly compared with that of the
normal control group [(4.66 ± 0.34)% vs. (8.60 ± 0.86)%, P < 0.05]. (2)RT-PCR
results displayed: compared with normal control group, Ub mRNA expression in
spleen increased at 6 hours in MODS group, and it reached the peak at 24 hours
(2.17 ± 0.20 vs. 1.00 ± 0.00, P < 0.01). Then, it decreased gradually. At 10-12
days, Ub mRNA decreased significantly as compared with that of normal control
group (0.72 ± 0.08 vs. 1.00 ± 0.00, P < 0.05). (3)Immunofluorescence results
displayed: compared with normal control group, CD11c⁺DC increased significantly
at 6 hours in MODS group and reached the peak at 24 hours [(7.55 ± 0.04)% vs.
(2.08 ± 0.13)%, P < 0.05], and then it decreased gradually. At 10-12 days, it was
close to that of the normal control group [(2.28 ± 0.06)% vs. (2.08 ± 0.13)%,
P>0.05]. Compared with the normal control group, I-A(b) positive cells in the
spleen was significantly increased at 6 hours in MODS group [(10.90 ± 1.40)% vs. 
(5.78 ± 0.47)%, P < 0.01], but it decreased at 24 hours [(3.32 ± 0.91)% vs. (5.78
± 0.47)%, P < 0.05]. I-A(b) positive cells were restored to the normal level at
48 hours and 5--7 days, and decreased significantly again at 10-12 days [(2.20 ± 
0.97)% vs. (5.78 ± 0.47)%, P < 0.05]. The number of Ub positive cells correlated 
positively to the expression of I-A(b) and the CD11c [r₁ = 0.899, r₂=0.987, both 
P < 0.05].
CONCLUSIONS: Ub might influence the maturation and activation of DC via
ubiquitination of the MHCII molecule on DC, thereby influencing the immune
response at different stages of MODS. The result might provide a new way to
recognize immune response and also a new monitoring index for immune response
regulation.


PMID: 22401159  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1242. Br J Pharmacol. 2012 Aug;166(8):2243-62. doi: 10.1111/j.1476-5381.2012.01929.x.

Roflumilast N-oxide, a PDE4 inhibitor, improves cilia motility and ciliated human
bronchial epithelial cells compromised by cigarette smoke in vitro.

Milara J(1), Armengot M, Bañuls P, Tenor H, Beume R, Artigues E, Cortijo J.

Author information: 
(1)Research Unit, University General Hospital Consortium, Valencia, Spain.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Mucociliary malfunction occurs in chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease (COPD) and compromised functions of ciliated bronchial
epithelial cells may contribute to this. Cigarette smoke, a major risk factor for
COPD, impairs ciliary beat frequency (CBF). cAMP augments CBF. This in vitro
study addressed, in differentiated, primary human bronchial epithelial cells,
whether roflumilast N-oxide, a PDE4 inhibitor, (i) augments CBF; (ii) prevents
the reduction in CBF induced by cigarette smoke extract (CSE); and (iii) protects
against the loss of the ciliated phenotype following long-term CSE exposure.
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: Air-liquid interface cultured human bronchial epithelial
cells were incubated with roflumilast N-oxide and exposed to CSE. CBF was
assessed by digital high speed video microscopy (DHSV). Ciliated cells were
characterized by β-tubulin IV staining and analyses of Foxj1 and Dnai2 mRNA and
protein (real-time quantitative PCR, Western blotting).
KEY RESULTS: Roflumilast N-oxide concentration-dependently triggered a rapid and 
persistent increase in CBF and reversed the decrease in CBF following CSE.
Long-term incubation of bronchial epithelial cells with CSE resulted in a loss in
ciliated cells associated with reduced expression of the ciliated cell markers
Foxj1 and Dnai2. The PDE4 inhibitor prevented this loss in the ciliated cell
phenotype and the compromised Foxj1 and Dnai2 expression. The enhanced release of
IL-13 following CSE, a cytokine that diminishes the proportion of ciliated cells 
and in parallel, reduces Foxj1 and Dnai2, was reversed by roflumilast N-oxide.
CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS: Roflumilast N-oxide protected differentiated human
bronchial epithelial cells from reduced CBF and loss of ciliated cells following 
CSE.

© 2012 The Authors. British Journal of Pharmacology © 2012 The British
Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1476-5381.2012.01929.x 
PMCID: PMC3448891
PMID: 22385203  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1243. Biochem Med (Zagreb). 2012;22(1):24-38.

Free DNA--new potential analyte in clinical laboratory diagnostics?

Wagner J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cytogenetics laboratory, Department of Medical Biology, Faculty of Medicine,
University J. J. Strossmayer, Osijek, Croatia. jwagner@mefos.hr

The existence of cell free DNA in the human circulatory system has been known
since the 1950s, however, intensive research in this area has been conducted for 
the last ten years. This review paper brings a short overview of the existing
literature concerning the cell free DNA research in various clinical fields and
pathological states and considers the application possibilities of this new
analyte in clinical laboratory diagnostics. At the moment, cell free DNA is most 
widely used for the purpose of non-invasive prenatal diagnosis of fetal sex or
fetal RhD status. The recent discovery of epigenetic changes in placental/fetal
DNA and the detection of fetal/placental-specific RNAs have made it possible to
use this technology in all pregnancies irrespective of the gender of the fetus.
With the application of new techniques such as next generation sequencing,
digital PCR and mass spectrometry, it is now possible to detect very small
amounts of specific DNA in the presence of excess of other nonspecific nucleic
acids. Second most probable application is in oncology, where detection and
monitoring of tumors is now possible by the detection of tumor-derived nucleic
acids. Third promising field for near future implementation of this analyte is
transplantation medicine, where free DNA level could serve as a marker of
transplant rejection. Before any further utilization of this new biomarker,
pre-analytical and analytical aspects of free DNA analysis remain to be
standardized. In the field of noninvasive prenatal diagnosis, important ethical, 
legal and social questions remain to be discussed.


PMCID: PMC4062320
PMID: 22384517  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1244. PLoS One. 2012;7(2):e32272. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0032272. Epub 2012 Feb 23.

A possible contribution of altered cathepsin B expression to the development of
skin sclerosis and vasculopathy in systemic sclerosis.

Noda S(1), Asano Y, Akamata K, Aozasa N, Taniguchi T, Takahashi T, Ichimura Y,
Toyama T, Sumida H, Yanaba K, Tada Y, Sugaya M, Kadono T, Sato S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Tokyo Graduate School of Medicine,
Tokyo, Japan.

Cathepsin B (CTSB) is a proteolytic enzyme potentially modulating angiogenic
processes and extracellular matrix remodeling. While matrix metalloproteinases
are shown to be implicated in tissue fibrosis and vasculopathy associated with
systemic sclerosis (SSc), the role of cathepsins in this disease has not been
well studied. The aim of this study is to evaluate the roles of CTSB in SSc.
Serum pro-CTSB levels were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in 55 
SSc patients and 19 normal controls. Since the deficiency of transcription factor
Fli1 in endothelial cells is potentially associated with the development of SSc
vasculopathy, cutaneous CTSB expression was evaluated by immunostaining in
Fli1(+/-) and wild type mice as well as in SSc and control subjects. The effects 
of Fli1 gene silencing and transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) on CTSB
expression were determined by real-time PCR in human dermal microvascular
endothelial cells (HDMECs) and dermal fibroblasts, respectively. Serum pro-CTSB
levels were significantly higher in limited cutaneous SSc (lcSSc) and late-stage 
diffuse cutaneous SSc (dcSSc) patients than in healthy controls. In dcSSc,
patients with increased serum pro-CTSB levels showed a significantly higher
frequency of digital ulcers than those with normal levels. CTSB expression in
dermal blood vessels was increased in Fli1(+/-) mice compared with wild type mice
and in SSc patients compared with healthy controls. Consistently, Fli1 gene
silencing increased CTSB expression in HDMECs. In cultured dermal fibroblasts
from early dcSSc, CTSB expression was decreased compared with normal fibroblasts 
and significantly reversed by TGF-β1 antisense oligonucleotide. In conclusion,
up-regulation of endothelial CTSB due to Fli1 deficiency may contribute to the
development of SSc vasculopathy, especially digital ulcers, while reduced
expression of CTSB in lesional dermal fibroblasts is likely to be associated with
skin sclerosis in early dcSSc.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0032272 
PMCID: PMC3285678
PMID: 22384200  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1245. PLoS One. 2012;7(2):e31430. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0031430. Epub 2012 Feb 24.

In vitro study of novel collagenase (XIAFLEX®) on Dupuytren's disease fibroblasts
displays unique drug related properties.

Syed F(1), Thomas AN, Singh S, Kolluru V, Emeigh Hart SG, Bayat A.

Author information: 
(1)Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery Research, School of Translational Medicine,
Manchester Interdisciplinary Biocentre, University of Manchester, Manchester,
United Kingdom.

Dupuytren's disease (DD) is a benign, fibroproliferative disease of the palmar
fascia, with excessive extracellular matrix (ECM) deposition and over-production 
of cytokines and growth factors, resulting in digital fixed flexion contractures 
limiting hand function and patient quality of life. Surgical fasciectomy is the
gold standard treatment but is invasive and has associated morbidity without
limiting disease recurrence. Injectable Collagenase Clostridium histolyticum
(CCH)--Xiaflex®--is a novel, nonsurgical option with clinically proven in vivo
reduction of DD contractures but with limited in vitro data demonstrating its
cellular and molecular effects. The aim of this study was to delineate the
effects of CCH on primary fibroblasts isolated from DD and non-DD anatomical
sites (using RTCA, LDH, WST-1, FACS, qRT-PCR, ELISA and In-Cell Quantitative
Western Blotting) to compare the efficacy of varying concentrations of Xiaflex®
against a reagent grade Collagenase, Collagenase A. Results demonstrated that DD 
nodule and cord fibroblasts had greater proliferation than those from fat and
skin. Xiaflex® exposure resulted in dose- and time-dependent inhibition of
cellular spreading, attachment and proliferation, with cellular recovery after
enzyme removal. Unlike Collagenase A, Xiaflex® did not cause apoptosis. Collagen 
expression patterns were significantly (p<0.05) different in DD fibroblasts
across anatomical sites - the highest levels of collagen I and III were detected 
in DD nodule, with DD cord and fat fibroblasts demonstrating a smaller increase
in both collagen expression relative to DD skin. Xiaflex® significantly (p<0.05) 
down-regulated ECM components, cytokines and growth factors in a dose-dependent
manner. An in vitro scratch wound assay model demonstrated that, at low
concentrations, Xiaflex® enabled a faster fibroblast reparatory migration into
the wound, whereas, at high concentrations, this process was significantly
(p<0.05) inhibited. This is the first report elucidating potential mechanisms of 
action of Xiaflex® on Dupuytren fibroblasts, offering a greater insight and a
better understanding of its effect in DD.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0031430 
PMCID: PMC3286458
PMID: 22384021  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1246. Nucleic Acids Res. 2012 Jun;40(11):e82. doi: 10.1093/nar/gks203. Epub 2012 Feb
28.

Comparison of microfluidic digital PCR and conventional quantitative PCR for
measuring copy number variation.

Whale AS(1), Huggett JF, Cowen S, Speirs V, Shaw J, Ellison S, Foy CA, Scott DJ.

Author information: 
(1)LGC Limited, Queens Road, Teddington, Middlesex TW11 0LY, UK.

One of the benefits of Digital PCR (dPCR) is the potential for unparalleled
precision enabling smaller fold change measurements. An example of an assessment 
that could benefit from such improved precision is the measurement of
tumour-associated copy number variation (CNV) in the cell free DNA (cfDNA)
fraction of patient blood plasma. To investigate the potential precision of dPCR 
and compare it with the established technique of quantitative PCR (qPCR), we used
breast cancer cell lines to investigate HER2 gene amplification and modelled a
range of different CNVs. We showed that, with equal experimental replication,
dPCR could measure a smaller CNV than qPCR. As dPCR precision is directly
dependent upon both the number of replicate measurements and the template
concentration, we also developed a method to assist the design of dPCR
experiments for measuring CNV. Using an existing model (based on Poisson and
binomial distributions) to derive an expression for the variance inherent in
dPCR, we produced a power calculation to define the experimental size required to
reliably detect a given fold change at a given template concentration. This work 
will facilitate any future translation of dPCR to key diagnostic applications,
such as cancer diagnostics and analysis of cfDNA.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gks203 
PMCID: PMC3367212
PMID: 22373922  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1247. Fish Shellfish Immunol. 2012 May;32(5):816-27. doi: 10.1016/j.fsi.2012.02.004.
Epub 2012 Feb 17.

RNA-seq analysis of mucosal immune responses reveals signatures of intestinal
barrier disruption and pathogen entry following Edwardsiella ictaluri infection
in channel catfish, Ictalurus punctatus.

Li C(1), Zhang Y, Wang R, Lu J, Nandi S, Mohanty S, Terhune J, Liu Z, Peatman E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Fisheries and Allied Aquacultures, Aquatic Genomics Unit, Auburn
University, Auburn, AL 36849, USA.

The mucosal surfaces of fish (gill, skin, gastrointestinal tract) are important
sites of bacterial exposure and host defense mechanisms. In mammalian systems,
the intestinal epithelium is well characterized as both a selectively permeable
barrier regulated by junctional proteins and as a primary site of infection for a
number of enteric pathogens including viruses, bacteria, and parasites. The
causative bacterium of enteric septicemia of catfish, Edwardsiella ictaluri, is
believed to gain entry through the intestinal epithelium, with previous research 
using a rat intestinal epithelial cell line (IEC-6) indicating actin
polymerization and receptor-mediated endocytosis as potential mechanisms of
uptake. Here, we utilized high-throughput RNA-seq to characterize the role of the
intestinal epithelial barrier following E. ictaluri challenge. A total of 197.6
million reads were obtained and assembled into 176,481 contigs with an average
length of 893.7 bp and N50 of 1676 bp. The assembled contigs contained 14,457
known unigenes, including 2719 genes not previously identified in other catfish
transcriptome studies. Comparison of digital gene expression between challenged
and control samples revealed 1633 differentially expressed genes at 3 h, 24 h,
and 3 day following exposure. Gene pathway analysis of the differentially
expressed gene set indicated the centrality of actin cytoskeletal
polymerization/remodelling and junctional regulation in pathogen entry and
subsequent inflammatory responses. The expression patterns of fifteen
differentially expressed genes related to intestinal epithelial barrier
dysfunction were validated by quantitative real-time RT-PCR (average correlation 
coeff. 0.92, p < 0.001). Our results set a foundation for future studies
comparing mechanisms of pathogen entry and mucosal immunity across several
important catfish pathogens including E. ictaluri, Edwardsiellatarda,
Flavobacterium columnare, and virulent atypical Aeromonas hydrophila.
Understanding of molecular mechanisms of pathogen entry during infection will
provide insight into strategies for selection of resistant catfish brood stocks
against various diseases.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsi.2012.02.004 
PMID: 22366064  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1248. PLoS One. 2012;7(2):e32344. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0032344. Epub 2012 Feb 16.

Fourier transform infrared spectroscopic imaging and multivariate regression for 
prediction of proteoglycan content of articular cartilage.

Rieppo L(1), Rieppo J, Jurvelin JS, Saarakkala S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Physics, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland.

Fourier Transform Infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopic imaging has been earlier applied
for the spatial estimation of the collagen and the proteoglycan (PG) contents of 
articular cartilage (AC). However, earlier studies have been limited to the use
of univariate analysis techniques. Current analysis methods lack the needed
specificity for collagen and PGs. The aim of the present study was to evaluate
the suitability of partial least squares regression (PLSR) and principal
component regression (PCR) methods for the analysis of the PG content of AC.
Multivariate regression models were compared with earlier used univariate methods
and tested with a sample material consisting of healthy and enzymatically
degraded steer AC. Chondroitinase ABC enzyme was used to increase the variation
in PG content levels as compared to intact AC. Digital densitometric measurements
of Safranin O-stained sections provided the reference for PG content. The results
showed that multivariate regression models predict PG content of AC significantly
better than earlier used absorbance spectrum (i.e. the area of carbohydrate
region with or without amide I normalization) or second derivative spectrum
univariate parameters. Increased molecular specificity favours the use of
multivariate regression models, but they require more knowledge of chemometric
analysis and extended laboratory resources for gathering reference data for
establishing the models. When true molecular specificity is required, the
multivariate models should be used.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0032344 
PMCID: PMC3281137
PMID: 22359683  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1249. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis. 2012 Sep;31(9):2237-45. doi:
10.1007/s10096-012-1561-6. Epub 2012 Feb 11.

Evaluation of a digital microfluidic real-time PCR platform to detect DNA of
Candida albicans in blood.

Schell WA(1), Benton JL, Smith PB, Poore M, Rouse JL, Boles DJ, Johnson MD,
Alexander BD, Pamula VK, Eckhardt AE, Pollack MG, Benjamin DK Jr, Perfect JR,
Mitchell TG.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Duke University
Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA.

Species of Candida frequently cause life-threatening infections in neonates,
transplant and intensive care unit (ICU) patients, and others with compromised
host defenses. The successful management of systemic candidiasis depends upon
early, rapid diagnosis. Blood cultures are the standard diagnostic method, but
identification requires days and less than half of the patients are positive.
These limitations may be eliminated by using real-time polymerase chain reaction 
(PCR) to detect Candida DNA in the blood specimens of patients at risk. Here, we 
optimized a PCR protocol to detect 5-10 yeasts in low volumes of simulated and
clinical specimens. We also used a mouse model of systemic candidiasis and
determined that candidemia is optimally detectable during the first few days
after infection. However, PCR tests are often costly, labor-intensive, and
inconvenient for routine use. To address these obstacles, we evaluated the
innovative microfluidic real-time PCR platform (Advanced Liquid Logic, Inc.),
which has the potential for full automation and rapid turnaround. Eleven and nine
of 16 specimens from individual patients with culture-proven candidemia tested
positive for C. albicans DNA by conventional and microfluidic real-time PCR,
respectively, for a combined sensitivity of 94%. The microfluidic platform offers
a significant technical advance in the detection of microbial DNA in clinical
specimens.

DOI: 10.1007/s10096-012-1561-6 
PMCID: PMC3939829
PMID: 22327343  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1250. Anal Chem. 2012 Mar 20;84(6):2654-61. doi: 10.1021/ac202532a. Epub 2012 Feb 29.

Real-time droplet DNA amplification with a new tablet platform.

Angione SL(1), Chauhan A, Tripathi A.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Biomedical Engineering, School of Engineering and Division of
Biology and Medicine, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island, United States.

We present a novel droplet-based tablet platform for temporal polymerase chain
reaction (PCR) in microliter droplets. The simple design of the device does not
require extensive processing or external equipment, which allows for greater ease
of use and integration as a point-of-care diagnostic. We demonstrate its
functionality to perform both PCR and reverse-transcription PCR for λ phage DNA
and H3 influenza RNA with ramp rates and cycle times consistent with traditional 
PCR thermal cyclers. We additionally investigate the effect of performing PCR in 
small volumes on the reaction performance by specifically examining adsorption of
reagents at the oil/water interface. We determined that adsorption of Taq
polymerase at the biphasic interface reduces yield and impairs reaction
performance at standard concentrations. Thus, microdroplet PCR reactions require 
additional polymerase to achieve sufficient amplification and we project for
applications utilizing nanodroplets or picodroplets like digital applications,
even greater concentrations of polymerase are required to achieve desired
results. Following the adsorption investigation, we evaluated the sensitivity of 
λ phage PCR on our platform to be less than 2.0 copies/μL with an efficiency of
104.4% and similar sensitivity for reverse-transcription PCR for influenza H3
RNA.

DOI: 10.1021/ac202532a 
PMID: 22320164  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1251. Asian-Australas J Anim Sci. 2012 Feb;25(2):278-85. doi: 10.5713/ajas.2011.11174. 
Epub 2012 Feb 1.

Analysis of Gene Expression Responses to a Salmonella Infection in Rugao Chicken 
Intestine Using GeneChips.

Luan DQ(1), Chang GB(1), Sheng ZW(1), Zhang Y(1), Zhou W(1), Li ZZ(1), Liu Y(2), 
Chen GH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Crop Cultivation and Farming System, Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan
430070, China . (2)Institute of Agricultural Resources and Environment
Research/Engineering Research Center for Digital Agriculture, Jiangsu Academy of 
Agricultural Sciences, Nanjing 210014, China .

Poultry products are an important source of Salmonella enterica. An effective way
to reduce food poisoning due to Salmonella would be to breed chickens more
resistant to infection. Unfortunately host responses to Salmonella are complex
with many factors involved. To learn more about responses to Salmonella in young 
chickens of 2 wk old, a cDNA Microarray containing 13,319 probes was performed to
compare gene expression profiles between two chicken groups under control and
Salmonella infected conditions. Newly hatched chickens were orally infected with 
S. enterica serovar Enteritidis. Since the intestine is one of the important
barriers the bacteria encounter after oral inoculation, intestine gene expression
was investigated at 2 wk old. There were 588 differentially expressed genes
detected, of which 276 were known genes, and of the total number 266 were
up-regulated and 322 were down-regulated. Differences in gene expression between 
the two chicken groups were found in control as well as Salmonella infected
conditions indicating a difference in the intestine development between the two
chicken groups which might be linked to the difference in Salmonella
susceptibility. The differential expressions of 4 genes were confirmed by
quantitative real-time PCR and the results indicated that the expression changes 
of these genes were generally consistent with the results of GeneChips. The
findings in this study have lead to the identification of novel genes and
possible cellular pathways, which are host dependent.

DOI: 10.5713/ajas.2011.11174 
PMCID: PMC4093142
PMID: 25049563 


1252. Dermatology. 2011;223(4):293-300. doi: 10.1159/000335371. Epub 2012 Jan 24.

High-risk human papillomavirus infection in Bowen's disease of the nail unit:
report of three cases and review of the literature.

Grundmeier N(1), Hamm H, Weissbrich B, Lang SC, Bröcker EB, Kerstan A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Venereology and Allergology, University Hospital of
Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Bowen's disease (BD) of the nail unit is associated with human
papillomavirus (HPV) infection.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to investigate the frequency of high-risk HPV
infection, gender, age and digital distribution in this condition.
METHODS: Biopsy specimens of 3 consecutive cases with periungual BD were
investigated for the presence of HPV DNA by in situ hybridization and by
polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Furthermore, 74 cases of ungual BD conducted
with HPV genotyping as reported in the literature were reviewed.
RESULTS: PCR of biopsy specimens revealed in 2 cases infection with HPV-16 and in
1 case with HPV-73. Additionally, in 1 HPV-16-positive case HPV-31/33 was
detected by in situ hybridization. In line, review of the literature demonstrated
a clear association of HPV-positive BD with high-risk HPV types. Interestingly,
age at diagnosis was significantly lower in women. Whereas in both genders the
second to fourth fingers on both hands were commonly diseased, only in men the
thumbs were also prominently affected.
CONCLUSIONS: Infection with high-risk HPV types is common in BD of the nail unit 
suggesting the aetiological cause. Therefore, patients and partners should be
closely followed up for digital and genital HPV-associated lesions.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000335371 
PMID: 22269697  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1253. J Exp Bot. 2012 Apr;63(7):2513-24. doi: 10.1093/jxb/err425. Epub 2012 Jan 20.

Molecular cloning and characterization of PtrLAR3, a gene encoding
leucoanthocyanidin reductase from Populus trichocarpa, and its constitutive
expression enhances fungal resistance in transgenic plants.

Yuan L(1), Wang L, Han Z, Jiang Y, Zhao L, Liu H, Yang L, Luo K.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Eco-environments of Three Gorges Reservoir Region, Ministry 
of Education, Institute of Resources Botany, School of Life Sciences, Southwest
University, Chongqing 400715, China.

The flavonoid-derived proanthocyanidins (PAs) are one class of the major defence 
phenolics in poplar leaves. Transcriptional activation of PA biosynthetic genes, 
resulting in PA accumulation in leaves, was detected following infection by the
fungal Marssonina brunnea f.sp. multigermtubi using digital gene expression
analysis. In order to study PA biosynthesis and its induction by fungi, a
putative leucoanthocyanidin reductase gene, PtrLAR3, was isolated from Populus
trichocarpa. Sequence comparison of PtrLAR3 with other known leucoanthocyanidin
reductase proteins revealed high amino acid sequence similarity.
Semi-quantitative reverse-transcription (RT) PCR and quantitative real-time PCR
analysis demonstrated that PtrLAR3 was expressed in various tissues and the
highest level of expression was observed in roots. Overexpression of PtrLAR3 in
Chinese white poplar (Populus tomentosa Carr.) led to a significant plant-wide
increase in PA levels. In vitro assays showed that crude leaf extracts from
35S:PtrLAR3 transformants were able to inhibit significantly the hyphal growth of
M. brunnea f.sp. multigermtubi compared to the extracts from control plants. The 
transgenic 35S:PtrLAR3 poplar plants displayed a significant (P < 0.05) reduction
in their disease symptoms compared with the control. RT-PCR analysis showed that 
PtrLAR3 expression was up-regulated in all transformants. These results suggested
that constitutive expression of endogenous PtrLAR3 could be exploited to improve 
resistance to fungal pathogens in poplar.

DOI: 10.1093/jxb/err425 
PMCID: PMC3346219
PMID: 22268151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1254. Int Braz J Urol. 2011 Nov-Dec;37(6):719-26.

Controversies in using urine samples for Prostate Cancer detection: PSA and PCA3 
expression analysis.

Fontenete S(1), Silva J, Teixeira AL, Ribeiro R, Bastos E, Pina F, Medeiros R.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Oncology Group and Virology LB, Portuguese Institute of Oncology of 
Porto, Porto, Portugal.

PURPOSE: Prostate cancer (PCa) is one of the most commonly diagnosed malignancies
in the world. Although PSA utilization as a serum marker has improved prostate
cancer detection it still presents some limitations, mainly regarding its
specificity. The expression of this marker, along with the detection of PCA3 mRNA
in urine samples, has been suggested as a new approach for PCa detection. The
goal of this work was to evaluate the efficacy of the urinary detection of PCA3
mRNA and PSA mRNA without performing the somewhat embarrassing prostate massage. 
It was also intended to optimize and implement a methodological protocol for this
kind of sampling.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Urine samples from 57 patients with suspected prostate
disease were collected, without undergoing prostate massage. Increased serum PSA 
levels were confirmed by medical records review. RNA was extracted by different
methods and a preamplification step was included in order to improve gene
detection by Real-Time PCR.
RESULTS: An increase in RNA concentration with the use of TriPure Isolation
Reagent. Despite this optimization, only 15.8% of the cases showed expression of 
PSA mRNA and only 3.8% of prostate cancer patients presented detectable levels of
PCA3 mRNA. The use of a preamplification step revealed no improvement in the
results obtained.
CONCLUSION: This work confirms that prostate massage is important before urine
collection for gene expression analysis. Since PSA and PCA3 are prostate
specific, it is necessary to promote the passage of cells from prostate to
urinary tract, in order to detect these genetic markers in urine samples.


PMID: 22234006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1255. BMC Genomics. 2012 Jan 10;13:11. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-13-11.

Differential expression patterns of conserved miRNAs and isomiRs during Atlantic 
halibut development.

Bizuayehu TT(1), Lanes CF, Furmanek T, Karlsen BO, Fernandes JM, Johansen SD,
Babiak I.

Author information: 
(1)University of Nordland, Faculty of Biosciences and Aquaculture, Postbox 1490, 
8049 Bodø, Norway.

BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play a major role in animal ontogenesis. Size
variants of miRNAs, isomiRs, are observed along with the main miRNA types, but
their origin and possible biological role are uncovered yet. Developmental
profiles of miRNAs have been reported in few fish species only and, to our
knowledge, differential expressions of isomiRs have not yet been shown during
fish development. Atlantic halibut, Hippoglossus hippoglossus L., undergoes
dramatic metamorphosis during early development from symmetrical pelagic larval
stage to unsymmetrical flatfish. No data exist on role of miRNAs in halibut
metamorphosis.
RESULTS: miRNA profiling using SOLiD deep sequencing technology revealed a total 
of 199 conserved, one novel antisense, and one miRNA* mature form. Digital
expression profiles of selected miRNAs were validated using reverse transcription
quantitative PCR. We found developmental transition-specific miRNA expression.
Expression of some miRNA* exceeded the guide strand miRNA. We revealed that
nucleotide truncations and/or additions at the 3' end of mature miRNAs resulted
in size variants showing differential expression patterns during the development 
in a number of miRNA families. We confirmed the presence of isomiRs by cloning
and Sanger sequencing. Also, we found inverse relationship between expression
levels of sense/antisense miRNAs during halibut development.
CONCLUSION: Developmental transitions during early development of Atlantic
halibut are associated with expression of certain miRNA types. IsomiRs are
abundant and often show differential expression during the development.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-13-11 
PMCID: PMC3398304
PMID: 22233483  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1256. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2012 Jan 24;109(4):1347-52. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1118018109. Epub 2012 Jan 9.

Digital RNA sequencing minimizes sequence-dependent bias and amplification noise 
with optimized single-molecule barcodes.

Shiroguchi K(1), Jia TZ, Sims PA, Xie XS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge,
MA 02138, USA.

RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) is a powerful tool for transcriptome profiling, but is
hampered by sequence-dependent bias and inaccuracy at low copy numbers intrinsic 
to exponential PCR amplification. We developed a simple strategy for mitigating
these complications, allowing truly digital RNA-Seq. Following reverse
transcription, a large set of barcode sequences is added in excess, and nearly
every cDNA molecule is uniquely labeled by random attachment of barcode sequences
to both ends. After PCR, we applied paired-end deep sequencing to read the two
barcodes and cDNA sequences. Rather than counting the number of reads, RNA
abundance is measured based on the number of unique barcode sequences observed
for a given cDNA sequence. We optimized the barcodes to be unambiguously
identifiable, even in the presence of multiple sequencing errors. This method
allows counting with single-copy resolution despite sequence-dependent bias and
PCR-amplification noise, and is analogous to digital PCR but amendable to
quantifying a whole transcriptome. We demonstrated transcriptome profiling of
Escherichia coli with more accurate and reproducible quantification than
conventional RNA-Seq.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1118018109 
PMCID: PMC3268301
PMID: 22232676  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1257. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2012 Feb;402(6):2079-88. doi: 10.1007/s00216-011-5644-5. Epub 
2012 Jan 5.

Lambda genomic DNA quantification using ultrasonic treatment followed by liquid
chromatography-isotope dilution mass spectrometry.

Dong L(1), Zang C, Wang J, Li L, Gao Y, Wu L, Li P.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Metrology, Beijing, China. donglh@nim.ac.cn

Quantification of genomic DNA that is traceable to the SI was performed
successfully by measuring the individual nucleotides. Specifically, ultrasound
was used to shear lambda genomic DNA into fragments of less than 200 base pairs, 
followed by deoxyribonuclease Ι and phosphodiesterase Ι digestion and liquid
chromatography-isotope dilution mass spectrometry (LC-IDMS) quantification to
estimate the mass fraction of the lambda DNA, based on the constituent
deoxynucleotide monophosphates (dNMPs) within the molecule. Digital PCR (dPCR)
was employed to quantify the same lambda DNA solution to provide independent data
for comparing the performance of two quantitative methods. On the basis of the
LC-IDMS measurement after ultrasonic treatment of the sample, the concentration
of lambda DNA was 273.1 ± 9.8 μg/g (expanded uncertainty at the 95% confidence
interval). This shows good agreement with the data from dPCR. Additionally, the
result calculated on the basis of the sum of the concentrations of the four dNMPs
is the same as that calculated on the basis of the sequence, which indicates that
knowledge of the DNA sequence and length is unnecessary to measure the total DNA 
concentration when applying ultrasonic treatment-LC-IDMS.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-011-5644-5 
PMID: 22218463  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1258. Acta Odontol Latinoam. 2012;25(3):324-9.

Nasal carriage of Staphylococcus aureus and Candida species in immunocompetent
individuals.

Nastri ML(1), Hecht P, Nastri N, Jewtuchowicz V, Cuesta A, Estrugo J, Gualtieri
A, Sordelli DO, Rosa A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, School of Dentistry, University of Buenos Aires,
Argentina.

The aim of this study was to analyze the prevalence of Staphylococcus aureus and 
Candida species in samples of nasal mucosa from 100 immunocompetent subjects of
both sexes, aged 18-70 years, during stomatological clinical examination. Samples
were taken from the mucosa of both nasal fossae using sterile swabs. Samples were
observed fresh, stained with Gram and Giemsa, and cultured on selective
differential media at 37 degrees C to isolate and identify the selected
microorganisms; conventional biochemical tests and commercial equipment and
molecular studies using PCR were performed. A digital thermometer-hygrometer was 
used to measure room temperature at the time of sampling, which was on average 25
+/- 2 degrees C, with relative ambient humidity 66 +/- 11%. S. aureus was
isolated from 38% of the samples; 4% of the samples were methicillin-resistant
(MRSA) strains, with 2% identified genetically as community-acquired (CA-MRSA)
and 2% as hospital-acquired (HA-MRSA). Candida was identified in 23% of the
samples, with prevalence of C. albicans (19%) followed by C. dubliniensis (3%)
and C. krusei (1%). There was significant association between Candida and S.
aureus (Chi-squared = 27.75; df = 1; (p < 0.001). The nasal cavity is a reservoir
and the identification of genus and species contributes to adequate
epidemiological surveillance.


PMID: 23798081  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1259. Transl Med (Sunnyvale). 2012;2(2). pii: 1000107.

Quantitative and Sensitive Detection of Cancer Genome Amplifications from
Formalin Fixed Paraffin Embedded Tumors with Droplet Digital PCR.

Nadauld L(1), Regan JF, Miotke L, Pai RK, Longacre TA, Kwok SS, Saxonov S, Ford
JM, Ji HP.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Oncology, Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of
Medicine, Stanford, CA, United States, 94305.

For the analysis of cancer, there is great interest in rapid and accurate
detection of cancer genome amplifications containing oncogenes that are potential
therapeutic targets. The vast majority of cancer tissue samples are formalin
fixed and paraffin embedded (FFPE) which enables histopathological examination
and long term archiving. However, FFPE cancer genomic DNA is oftentimes degraded 
and generally a poor substrate for many molecular biology assays. To overcome the
issues of poor DNA quality from FFPE samples and detect oncogenic copy number
amplifications with high accuracy and sensitivity, we developed a novel approach.
Our assay requires nanogram amounts of genomic DNA, thus facilitating study of
small amounts of clinical samples. Using droplet digital PCR (ddPCR), we can
determine the relative copy number of specific genomic loci even in the presence 
of intermingled normal tissue. We used a control dilution series to determine the
limits of detection for the ddPCR assay and report its improved sensitivity on
minimal amounts of DNA compared to standard real-time PCR. To develop this
approach, we designed an assay for the fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 gene
(FGFR2) that is amplified in a gastric and breast cancers as well as others. We
successfully utilized ddPCR to ascertain FGFR2 amplifications from FFPE-preserved
gastrointestinal adenocarcinomas.

DOI: 10.4172/2161-1025.1000107 
PMCID: PMC3653435
PMID: 23682346 


1260. FEBS Open Bio. 2012 Jun 1;2:129-34. doi: 10.1016/j.fob.2012.05.004. Print 2012.

BRAF, GNAQ, and GNA11 mutations and copy number in pediatric low-grade glioma.

Laviv Y(1), Toledano H, Michowiz S, Dratviman-Storobinsky O, Turm Y, Fichman-Horn
S, Kagnovski E, Goldenberg-Cohen N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel,
Petach Tikva, Israel.

Fifty-two samples of pediatric low-grade glioma (48 primary, 4 recurrent) were
analyzed for BRAF copy number variation (digital PCR analysis, CopyCaller) and
point mutations of BRAF V600E, and exon 5 Q209 in GNAQ, and GNA11, using the
MALDI-TOF mass spectrometer with validation by direct sequencing. An increased
BRAF copy number was found in 18/47 primary samples tested; 15 of them (83.3%)
were pilocytic astrocytomas. A BRAF mutation was found in 3/48 primary tumors,
all with a normal BRAF copy number and no GNAQ mutation. One sample had a GNAQ209
mutation (Q209P626) with a normal BRAF gene; none of the tumors had a GNA11Q209
mutation. Recurrent or progressive tumors, analyzed in four patients, had the
same molecular genotype as their primary. Increased BRAF copy number and
activating BRAF mutations may be involved in the development of low-grade glioma 
via overactivation of the Ras/Raf pathway. This is the first report of a mutation
in GNAQ209 in pediatric low-grade glioma. Understanding the molecular mechanisms 
underlying glioma initiation and growth may assist in the development of targeted
therapies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fob.2012.05.004 
PMCID: PMC3642131
PMID: 23650591 


1261. Int J Oncol. 2012 May;40(5):1501-14. doi: 10.3892/ijo.2011.1314. Epub 2011 Dec
21.

Norcantharidin: a potential antiangiogenic agent for gallbladder cancers in vitro
and in vivo.

Zhang JT(1), Fan YZ, Chen CQ, Zhao ZM, Sun W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University School of Medicine, 
Shanghai, PR China.

Our objective was to explore the antiangiogenic activity of norcantharidin (NCTD)
as an angiogenic inhibitor for gallbladder cancers. In vitro and in vivo
experiments to determine the effects of NCTD on HUVECs, chicken CAM capillaries
and gallbladder cancer xenograft angiogenesis in nude mice were respectively
done. The MTT method was used to assay the cytotoxicity of NCTD on HUVECs.
Immunofluorescence was used to evaluate HUVEC apoptosis. The scraping line
method, matrigel invasion assay and tube formation assay were used to detect the 
migration, invasion and tube formation of HUVECs. A digital camera was used to
observe chicken CAM capillaries. Experiments with NCTD in a xenograft model were 
used to observe the effect of NCTD on xenograft growth and survival of mice with 
xenografts. CD₃₄ immunohistochemistry, flow cytometry and micro-MRA were used,
respectively, to determine MVD, cell apoptosis and hemodynamic analysis of the
xenografts. Immunohistochemistry and RT-PCR were used, respectively, to detect
the expression of VEGF, Ang-2, TSP, TIMP-2 proteins/mRNAs of the xenografts. The 
xenograft MVD associated with tumor volume, the PCNA/apoptosis ratio and
related-protein expression was evaluated simultaneously. We found that NCTD
effectively inhibited the proliferation, migration, invasion and capillary-like
tube formation of HUVECs in vitro; it reduced angiogenesis and directly destroyed
the formed CAM capillaries in vivo. In the experiments in mice, NCTD not only
inhibited significantly xenograft proliferation and growth, prolonged survival
time of mice with xenografts, decreased the xenograft MVD and vascular perfusion,
but also, similarly to ES, decreased significantly the expression of VEGF or
Ang-2 protein/mRNA, increased the expression of TSP or TIMP-2 protein/mRNA.
Moreover, the xenograft MVD was positively related with tumor volume,
PCNA/apoptosis ratio, and VEGF or Ang-2 expression, respectively (all P<0.05),
but negatively correlated with TSP or TIMP-2 expression (both P<0.05). These data
showed that NCTD could serve as a potential antiangiogenic agent for gallbladder 
cancers.

DOI: 10.3892/ijo.2011.1314 
PMID: 22200632  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1262. Asian Pac J Trop Med. 2012 Jan;5(1):58-61. doi: 10.1016/S1995-7645(11)60246-0.

Morphometric differentiation between camel and sheep strains of Echinococcus
granulosus using computer image analysis system (CIAS).

Mowlavi G(1), Salehi M, Eshraghian M, Rokni MB, Fasihi-Harandi M, Mohajeran E,
Salahi-Moghaddam A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Parasitology & Mycology, School of Public Health, Tehran
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

OBJECTIVE: To find importance of morphometric criterion of larval rostellar hook 
of Echinococcus granulosus (E. granulosus) and the easy and reliable method for
distinguish sheep and camel strains in epidemiologic studies.
METHODS: Larval rostellar hooks (n=1860) of 31 camel and sheep isolates in Iran, 
which already had been characterized by PCR, were carefully processed by
computerized imagime analysis system (CIAS) and acquired data about rostellar
hooks were analyzed using software SPSS.
RESULTS: Measurement analysis of rostellar hooks [mean length (24.23±3.12) μ m]
indicated that length of the large hook was a remarkable parameter for strain
differentiation. Data analysis demonstrated that CIAS could be used as a reliable
tool to distinguish camel from sheep strains with high sensitivity (95.2%) and
specificity (91.5%).
CONCLUSIONS: CIAS as a specific, sensitive, economic, fast, and reliable means
might be used for differentiation of E. granulosus strains. Although perimeter
and area were measured by digital technology, they were not shown as
discriminative criterion as total hook length did.

Copyright © 2012 Hainan Medical College. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1995-7645(11)60246-0 
PMID: 22182645  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1263. Methods Mol Biol. 2012;822:205-17. doi: 10.1007/978-1-61779-427-8_14.

Methods for small RNA preparation for digital gene expression profiling by
next-generation sequencing.

Linsen SE(1), Cuppen E.

Author information: 
(1)Hubrecht Institute, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Digital gene expression (DGE) profiling techniques are playing an eminent role in
the detection, localization, and differential expression quantification of many
small RNA species, including microRNAs (1-3). Procedures in small RNA library
preparation techniques typically include adapter ligation by RNA ligase, followed
by reverse transcription and amplification by PCR. This chapter describes three
protocols that were successfully applied to generate small RNA sequencing
SOLiD(TM) libraries. The Ambion SREK(TM)-adopted protocol can be readily used for
multiplexing samples; the modban-based protocol is cost-efficient, but biased
toward certain microRNAs; the poly(A)-based protocol is less biased, but less
precise because of the A-tail that is introduced. In summary, each of these
protocols has its advantages and disadvantages with respect to the ease of
including barcodes, costs, and outcome.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-61779-427-8_14 
PMID: 22144201  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1264. PLoS One. 2011;6(11):e28223. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0028223. Epub 2011 Nov 30.

A systematic analysis on DNA methylation and the expression of both mRNA and
microRNA in bladder cancer.

Zhu J(1), Jiang Z, Gao F, Hu X, Zhou L, Chen J, Luo H, Sun J, Wu S, Han Y, Yin G,
Chen M, Han Z, Li X, Huang Y, Zhang W, Zhou F, Chen T, Fa P, Wang Y, Sun L, Leng 
H, Sun F, Liu Y, Ye M, Yang H, Cai Z, Gui Y, Zhang X.

Author information: 
(1)Beijing Genomics Institute at Shenzhen, Shenzhen, China.

BACKGROUND: DNA methylation aberration and microRNA (miRNA) deregulation have
been observed in many types of cancers. A systematic study of methylome and
transcriptome in bladder urothelial carcinoma has never been reported.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: The DNA methylation was profiled by modified
methylation-specific digital karyotyping (MMSDK) and the expression of mRNAs and 
miRNAs was analyzed by digital gene expression (DGE) sequencing in tumors and
matched normal adjacent tissues obtained from 9 bladder urothelial carcinoma
patients. We found that a set of significantly enriched pathways disrupted in
bladder urothelial carcinoma primarily related to "neurogenesis" and "cell
differentiation" by integrated analysis of -omics data. Furthermore, we
identified an intriguing collection of cancer-related genes that were deregulated
at the levels of DNA methylation and mRNA expression, and we validated several of
these genes (HIC1, SLIT2, RASAL1, and KRT17) by Bisulfite Sequencing PCR and
Reverse Transcription qPCR in a panel of 33 bladder cancer samples.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: We characterized the profiles between methylome and
transcriptome in bladder urothelial carcinoma, identified a set of significantly 
enriched key pathways, and screened four aberrantly methylated and expressed
genes. Conclusively, our findings shed light on a new avenue for basic bladder
cancer research.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0028223 
PMCID: PMC3227661
PMID: 22140553  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1265. J Agric Food Chem. 2012 Jan 11;60(1):36-43. doi: 10.1021/jf2037032. Epub 2011 Dec
12.

Multiplex DNA detection of food allergens on a digital versatile disk.

Tortajada-Genaro LA(1), Santiago-Felipe S, Morais S, Gabaldón JA, Puchades R,
Maquieira Á.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Reconocimiento Molecular y Desarrollo Tecnológico, IDM, Departamento
de Química, Universitat Politècnica de València, Camino de Vera, E46022 Valencia,
Spain.

The development of a DNA microarray method on a digital versatile disk (DVD) is
described for the simultaneous detection of traces of hazelnut ( Corylus avellana
L.), peanut ( Arachis hypogaea ), and soybean ( Glycine max ) in foods. After DNA
extraction, multiplex PCR was set up using 5'-labeled specific primers for Cor a 
1, Ar h 2, and Le genes, respectively. Digoxin-labeled PCR products were detected
by hybridization with 5'-biotinylated probes immobilized on a
streptavidin-modified DVD surface. The reaction product attenuates the signal
intensity of the laser that reached the DVD drive used as detector, correlating
well with the amount of amplified sequence. Analytical performances showed a
detection limit of 1 μg/g and good assay reproducibility (RSD 8%), suitable for
the simultaneous detection of the three targeted allergens. The developed
methodology was tested with several commercially available foodstuffs,
demonstrating its applicability. The results were in good agreement, in terms of 
sensitivity and reproducibility, with those obtained with ELISA, PCR-gel agarose 
electrophoresis, and RT-PCR.

DOI: 10.1021/jf2037032 
PMID: 22126645  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1266. Tohoku J Exp Med. 2011;225(4):311-8.

Characterization of a novel human testis-specific gene: testis developmental
related gene 1 (TDRG1).

Jiang X(1), Li D, Yang J, Wen J, Chen H, Xiao X, Dai Y, Yang J, Tang Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, the Third Xiangya Hospital of Central South University,
Changsha, Hunan, PR China.

Spermatogenesis is a highly coordinated physiological process that requires the
correct expression and functions of thousands of developmentally regulated genes.
The regulation of spermatogenesis is not well defined, since majority of the
related genes have neither been identified nor fully characterized. Hence, it is 
meaningful to identify and characterize these genes to reveal the mechanism
underlying spermatogenesis. In this study, using digital differential display, we
identified a novel human testis-specific gene, testis developmental related gene 
1 (TDRG1, GenBank DQ168992), via electronic subtraction of human testis UniGene
databases from those of non-reproductive tissues. The transcript of the TDRG1
gene has an open-reading frame that encodes 100 amino acids. We next prepared the
anti-TDRG1 monoclonal antibody 10B6 and confirmed that it specifically recognizes
an 11-kDa protein in the tissue extracts from an adult human testicular sample
(age 31 years) by Western blot analysis. RT-PCR coupled with immunohistochemistry
of human tissues demonstrated that TDRG1 is exclusively expressed in the testis
but not in any other non-reproductive tissues. TDRG1 is mainly located in
spermatogenic cells in seminiferous tubules of adult testis. Furthermore, TDRG1
shows the highest expression level in human post-puberty testis, with the
expression levels decreasing afterwards with aging. Importantly, TDRG1 mRNA is
undetectable in the fetal testis, as judged by RT-PCR. In conclusion, TDRG1 is a 
developmentally regulated testicular-specific gene. We suggest that TDRG1, a
newly identified testis-specific gene, may play important roles in human
spermatogenesis.

© 2011 Tohoku University Medical Press


PMID: 22123530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1267. Anal Chem. 2012 Jan 17;84(2):1003-11. doi: 10.1021/ac202578x. Epub 2011 Dec 21.

Evaluation of a droplet digital polymerase chain reaction format for DNA copy
number quantification.

Pinheiro LB(1), Coleman VA, Hindson CM, Herrmann J, Hindson BJ, Bhat S, Emslie
KR.

Author information: 
(1)National Measurement Institute, Lindfield, New South Wales, Australia.
Leonardo.Pinheiro@measurement.gov.au

Droplet digital polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR) is a new technology that was
recently commercialized to enable the precise quantification of target nucleic
acids in a sample. ddPCR measures absolute quantities by counting nucleic acid
molecules encapsulated in discrete, volumetrically defined, water-in-oil droplet 
partitions. This novel ddPCR format offers a simple workflow capable of
generating highly stable partitioning of DNA molecules. In this study, we
assessed key performance parameters of the ddPCR system. A linear ddPCR response 
to DNA concentration was obtained from 0.16% through to 99.6% saturation in a
20,000 droplet assay corresponding to more than 4 orders of magnitude of target
DNA copy number per ddPCR. Analysis of simplex and duplex assays targeting two
distinct loci in the Lambda DNA genome using the ddPCR platform agreed, within
their expanded uncertainties, with values obtained using a lower density
microfluidic chamber based digital PCR (cdPCR). A relative expanded uncertainty
under 5% was achieved for copy number concentration using ddPCR. This level of
uncertainty is much lower than values typically observed for quantification of
specific DNA target sequences using currently commercially available real-time
and digital cdPCR technologies.

DOI: 10.1021/ac202578x 
PMCID: PMC3260738
PMID: 22122760  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1268. J Neurooncol. 2012 Apr;107(2):269-80. doi: 10.1007/s11060-011-0756-5. Epub 2011
Nov 27.

Novel cell lines established from pediatric brain tumors.

Xu J(1), Erdreich-Epstein A, Gonzalez-Gomez I, Melendez EY, Smbatyan G, Moats RA,
Rosol M, Biegel JA, Reynolds CP.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Therapeutics Program, Division of Hematology-Oncology, USC-CHLA 
Institute for Pediatric Clinical Research, Children's Hospital Los Angeles, Los
Angeles, CA 90027, USA.

The paucity of cell culture models for childhood brain tumors prompted us to
establish pediatric cell lines for use in biological experiments and preclinical 
developmental therapeutic studies. Three cell lines were established, CHLA-200
(GBM), CHLA-259 (anaplastic medulloblastoma) and CHLA-266 (atypical teratoid
rhabdoid tumor, AT/RT). Consistent with an AT/RT origin, CHLA-266 lacked INI1
expression and had monosomy 22. All lines had unique DNA short tandem repeat
"fingerprints" matching that of the patient's tumor tissue and were adherent on
tissue culture plastic, but differed in morphology and doubling times. CHLA-200
had a silent mutation in TP53. CHLA-259 and CHLA-266 had wild-type TP53. All
three lines were relatively resistant to multiple drugs when compared to the DAOY
medulloblastoma cell line, using the DIMSCAN fluorescence digital image
microscopy cytotoxicity assay. RNA expression of MYC and MYCN were quantified
using RT-PCR (Taqman). CHLA-200 expressed MYC, DAOY and CHLA-259 expressed MYCN, 
and CHLA-266 expressed both MYCN and MYC. CHLA-200 was only tumorigenic
subcutaneously, but CHLA-259 and CHLA-266 were tumorigenic both subcutaneously
and in brains of NOD/SCID mice. Immunohistochemistry of the xenografts revealed
GFAP staining in CHLA-200 and PGP 9.5 staining in CHLA-259 and CHLA-266 tumors.
As expected, INI1 expression was lacking in CHLA-266 (AT/RT). These three new
cell lines will provide useful models for research of pediatric brain tumors.

DOI: 10.1007/s11060-011-0756-5 
PMCID: PMC3379550
PMID: 22120608  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1269. Clin Chem. 2012 Feb;58(2):465-8. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2011.174417. Epub 2011 Nov
18.

Further improvement in quantifying male fetal DNA in maternal plasma.

Jin S(1), Lin XM, Law H, Kwek KY, Yeo GS, Ding C.

Author information: 
(1)Growth, Development and Metabolism Program, Singapore Institute for Clinical
Sciences, Agency for Science, Technology and Research, Singapore.

BACKGROUND: Cell-free fetal DNA (cffDNA) in maternal plasma can be clinically
useful for detecting prenatal disorders and pregnancy monitoring. More sensitive,
specific, and quantitative detection of cffDNA in maternal plasma may expand the 
clinical utility of such measurements.
METHODS: We developed a quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) assay [Y chromosome
repetitive sequence (YRS) assay] based on a highly repetitive short sequence
specific for the Y chromosome. Both standard qPCR and digital qPCR were performed
to compare the sensitivity and specificity of this new assay against already
established male DNA-specific assays.
RESULTS: The YRS assay was at least 10-fold more sensitive than the currently
most sensitive DYS14 assay. The YRS assay was able to detect 0.5 genome
equivalents (GE) per PCR reaction when fetal DNA was present at 0.2% of the total
DNA. The background noise for the YRS assay was much lower than for the DYS14
assay in analyses of plasma samples from pregnancies with female fetuses.
CONCLUSIONS: The YRS assay is a substantial improvement for quantifying rare male
fetal DNA in maternal plasma. The higher sensitivity and specificity may expand
the clinical and research utility of cffDNA.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2011.174417 
PMID: 22100805  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1270. FEMS Microbiol Ecol. 2012 Feb;79(2):518-29. doi:
10.1111/j.1574-6941.2011.01234.x. Epub 2011 Nov 28.

Microbial diversity in bovine papillomatous digital dermatitis in Holstein dairy 
cows from upstate New York.

Santos TM(1), Pereira RV, Caixeta LS, Guard CL, Bicalho RC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Population Medicine & Diagnostic Sciences, College of Veterinary
Medicine, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA.

Papillomatous digital dermatitis (PDD) is one of the most prevalent diseases of
cattle, adversely affecting the dairy industry by its negative effect on milk
production and reproductive performance. Our objective was to use
culture-independent methods to determine the microbial diversity in different
strata of PDD lesions of three Holstein dairy cows, analyzing whether major
differences exist compared to foot skin of three non-infected cows. Both
group-specific 16S rRNA gene PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and
clone library sequencing of broad-range 16S rRNA gene showed differences between 
the microbial composition of healthy dairy cows and the different strata of the
lesion. The predominant bacterial community in the lesion, regardless of the
stratum, consisted of 166 specific phylotypes belonging to seven bacterial phyla.
Spirochetes (particularly, treponemes) was the most prominent group detected in
PDD deep biopsies and was only found in samples from the lesion. Additionally,
one phylotype phylogenetically affiliated with uncultured Euryarchaeota was
detected in two strata of the lesion. Sequences from healthy foot skin samples
revealed 86 specific phylotypes that were affiliated with Firmicutes and
Proteobacteria. Our study corroborates the theory that treponemes are involved in
PDD disease etiology and suggests, for the first time, the presence of archaeal
members in this particular bovine infection.

© 2011 Federation of European Microbiological Societies. Published by Blackwell
Publishing Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1574-6941.2011.01234.x 
PMID: 22093037  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1271. Open Rheumatol J. 2011;5:59-63. doi: 10.2174/1874312901105010059. Epub 2011 Oct
19.

Lack of CTGF*-945C/G Dimorphism in Thai Patients with Systemic Sclerosis.

Louthrenoo W(1), Kasitanon N, Wichainun R, Wangkaew S, Sukitawut W, Ohnogi Y,
Kuwata S, Takeuchi F.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of
Medicine, Chiang Mai University, Chiang Mai, Thailand.

An association between connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) gene dimorphism at 
-945 (CTGF*-945C/G) and systemic sclerosis (SSc) has been reported with
inconclusive results. We performed this study to determine whether such an
association exists among Thai patients with SSc. DNA samples were taken from 50
Thai SSc patients (diffuse SSc in 39 and limited SSc in 11) and 99 healthy
controls for determination of CTGF*-945C/G dimorphism by polymerase chain
reaction (PCR) using specific oligonucleotide primers. The associations between
the genotype frequencies, clinical manifestations and auto-antibodies were
determined as well. When compared with the controls, SSc patients had no
significantly higher frequencies of the GG genotype (44.0% vs 39.4%, p = 0.60), G
allele (63.0% vs 65.2%, p = 0.80) or G phenotype (82.0% vs 90.9%, p = 1.0). There
was no association between the presence of the GG genotype and clinical
manifestations (pulmonary fibrosis, sclerodactyly, digital pitting scars,
telangiectasia and pulmonary arterial hypertension), or the presence of
auto-antibodies (anti-Scl-70, anti-SSA/Ro, and anti-RNP). In conclusion, we found
no association between CTGF*-945C/G dimorphism and Thai SSc patients.

DOI: 10.2174/1874312901105010059 
PMCID: PMC3204428
PMID: 22046208 


1272. Anal Chem. 2011 Nov 15;83(22):8604-10. doi: 10.1021/ac202028g. Epub 2011 Oct 28.

High-throughput droplet digital PCR system for absolute quantitation of DNA copy 
number.

Hindson BJ(1), Ness KD, Masquelier DA, Belgrader P, Heredia NJ, Makarewicz AJ,
Bright IJ, Lucero MY, Hiddessen AL, Legler TC, Kitano TK, Hodel MR, Petersen JF, 
Wyatt PW, Steenblock ER, Shah PH, Bousse LJ, Troup CB, Mellen JC, Wittmann DK,
Erndt NG, Cauley TH, Koehler RT, So AP, Dube S, Rose KA, Montesclaros L, Wang S, 
Stumbo DP, Hodges SP, Romine S, Milanovich FP, White HE, Regan JF, Karlin-Neumann
GA, Hindson CM, Saxonov S, Colston BW.

Author information: 
(1)Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc., Pleasanton, California 94566, United States.
ben_hindson@bio-rad.com

Digital PCR enables the absolute quantitation of nucleic acids in a sample. The
lack of scalable and practical technologies for digital PCR implementation has
hampered the widespread adoption of this inherently powerful technique. Here we
describe a high-throughput droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) system that enables
processing of ~2 million PCR reactions using conventional TaqMan assays with a
96-well plate workflow. Three applications demonstrate that the massive
partitioning afforded by our ddPCR system provides orders of magnitude more
precision and sensitivity than real-time PCR. First, we show the accurate
measurement of germline copy number variation. Second, for rare alleles, we show 
sensitive detection of mutant DNA in a 100,000-fold excess of wildtype
background. Third, we demonstrate absolute quantitation of circulating fetal and 
maternal DNA from cell-free plasma. We anticipate this ddPCR system will allow
researchers to explore complex genetic landscapes, discover and validate new
disease associations, and define a new era of molecular diagnostics.

DOI: 10.1021/ac202028g 
PMCID: PMC3216358
PMID: 22035192  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1273. BMC Genomics. 2011 Oct 26;12:525. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-12-525.

Identification of genes associated with nitrogen-use efficiency by genome-wide
transcriptional analysis of two soybean genotypes.

Hao QN(1), Zhou XA, Sha AH, Wang C, Zhou R, Chen SL.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Oil Crops Research, Chinese Academy of Agriculture Sciences,
Wuhan 430062, China.

BACKGROUND: Soybean is a valuable crop that provides protein and oil. Soybean
requires a large amount of nitrogen (N) to accumulate high levels of N in the
seed. The yield and protein content of soybean seeds are directly affected by the
N-use efficiency (NUE) of the plant, and improvements in NUE will improve yields 
and quality of soybean products. Genetic engineering is one of the approaches to 
improve NUE, but at present, it is hampered by the lack of information on genes
associated with NUE. Solexa sequencing is a new method for estimating gene
expression in the transcription level. Here, the expression profiles were
analyzed between two soybean varieties in N-limited conditions to identify genes 
related to NUE.
RESULTS: Two soybean genotypes were grown under N-limited conditions; a
low-N-tolerant variety (No.116) and a low-N-sensitive variety (No.84-70). The
shoots and roots of soybeans were used for sequencing. Eight libraries were
generated for analysis: 2 genotypes × 2 tissues (roots and shoots) × 2 time
periods [short-term (0.5 to 12 h) and long-term (3 to 12 d) responses] and
compared the transcriptomes by high-throughput tag-sequencing analysis.
5,739,999, 5,846,807, 5,731,901, 5,970,775, 5,476,878, 5,900,343, 5,930,716, and 
5,862,642 clean tags were obtained for the eight libraries: L1, 116-shoot
short-term; L2 84-70-shoot short-term; L3 116-shoot long-term; L4 84-70-shoot
long-term; L5 116-root short-term; L6 84-70-root short-term; L7 116-root
long-term;L8 84-70-root long-term; these corresponded to 224,154, 162,415,
191,994, 181,792, 204,639, 206,998, 233,839 and 257,077 distinct tags,
respectively. The clean tags were mapped to the reference sequences for
annotation of expressed genes. Many genes showed substantial differences in
expression among the libraries. In total, 3,231 genes involved in twenty-two
metabolic and signal transduction pathways were up- or down-regulated.
Twenty-four genes were randomly selected and confirmed their expression patterns 
by quantitative RT-PCR; Twenty-one of the twenty-four genes showed expression
patterns consistent with the Digital Gene Expression (DGE) data.
CONCLUSIONS: A number of soybean genes were differentially expressed between the 
low-N-tolerant and low-N-sensitive varieties under N-limited conditions. Some of 
these genes may be candidates for improving NUE. These findings will help to
provide a detailed understanding of NUE mechanisms, and also provide a basis for 
breeding soybean varieties that are tolerant to low-N conditions.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-12-525 
PMCID: PMC3210170
PMID: 22029603  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1274. Vet Microbiol. 2012 Apr 23;156(1-2):102-9. doi: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2011.09.029.
Epub 2011 Oct 2.

Host and environmental reservoirs of infection for bovine digital dermatitis
treponemes.

Evans NJ(1), Timofte D, Isherwood DR, Brown JM, Williams JM, Sherlock K, Lehane
MJ, Murray RD, Birtles RJ, Hart CA, Carter SD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infection Biology, Institute of Infection and Global Health,
University of Liverpool, Liverpool L69 7ZJ, UK. evansnj@liverpool.ac.uk

Bovine digital dermatitis (BDD) is a global infectious disease causing lameness
of cattle and is responsible for substantial animal welfare issues and economic
losses. The causative agents are considered to be spirochetal bacteria belonging 
to the genus Treponema, which have consistently been identified in BDD lesions
worldwide. One potential means of controlling infection is the disruption of
transmission; however, the infection reservoirs and transmission routes of BDD
treponemes have yet to be elucidated. To address these issues, we surveyed for
evidence of BDD treponeme presence in the dairy farm environment, in bovine
tissues and in bovine gastrointestinal (GI) tract contents. A total of 368
samples were tested using PCR assays specific for each of three currently
recognised, isolated phylotypes of BDD treponemes. All environmental samples,
together with insects and GI tract content samples were negative for BDD
treponeme DNA from the three phylotypes. However, we identified BDD treponemes in
two non-pedal bovine regions: the oral cavity (14.3% of cattle tested) and the
rectum (14.8% of cattle tested). Whilst only single phylotypes were detected in
the oral cavity, two of the rectal tissues yielded DNA from more than one
phylotype, with one sample yielding all three BDD treponeme phylotypes. Whilst it
might be considered that direct skin to skin contact may be a major transmission 
route of BDD treponemes, further studies are required to characterise and
determine the potential contribution of oral and rectal carriage to BDD
transmission.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2011.09.029 
PMID: 22019292  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1275. BMC Genomics. 2011 Oct 17;12:513. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-12-513.

Screening and identification of seed-specific genes using digital differential
display tools combined with microarray data from common wheat.

Yang X(1), Xu H, Li W, Li L, Sun J, Li Y, Yan Y, Hu Y.

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Sciences, Capital Normal University, Beijing, 100048, China.

BACKGROUND: Wheat is one of the most important cereal crops for human beings,
with seeds being the tissue of highly economic value. Various morphogenetic and
metabolic processes are exclusively associated with seed maturation. The goal of 
this study was to screen and identify genes specifically expressed in the
developing seed of wheat with an integrative utilization of digital differential 
display (DDD) and available online microarray databases.
RESULTS: A total of 201 unigenes were identified as the results of DDD screening 
and microarray database searching. The expressions of 6 of these were shown to be
seed-specific by qRT-PCR analysis. Further GO enrichment analysis indicated that 
seed-specific genes were mainly associated with defense response, response to
stress, multi-organism process, pathogenesis, extracellular region, nutrient
reservoir activity, enzyme inhibitor activity, antioxidant activity and
oxidoreductase activity. A comparison of this set of genes with the rice (Oryza
sativa) genome was also performed and approximately three-fifths of them have
rice counterparts. Between the counterparts, around 63% showed similar expression
patterns according to the microarray data.
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, the DDD screening combined with microarray data
analysis is an effective strategy for the identification of seed-specific
expressed genes in wheat. These seed-specific genes screened during this study
will provide valuable information for further studies about the functions of
these genes in wheat.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-12-513 
PMCID: PMC3206523
PMID: 22003838  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1276. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2012 May 1;83(1):164-71. doi:
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2011.05.033. Epub 2011 Oct 12.

DNA repair biomarkers predict response to neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy in
esophageal cancer.

Alexander BM(1), Wang XZ, Niemierko A, Weaver DT, Mak RH, Roof KS, Fidias P, Wain
J, Choi NC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Dana-Farber/Brigham and Women's Cancer
Center, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. bmalexander@lroc.harvard.edu

PURPOSE: The addition of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy prior to surgical
resection for esophageal cancer has improved clinical outcomes in some trials.
Pathologic complete response (pCR) following neoadjuvant therapy is associated
with better clinical outcome in these patients, but only 22% to 40% of patients
achieve pCR. Because both chemotherapy and radiotherapy act by inducing DNA
damage, we analyzed proteins selected from multiple DNA repair pathways, using
quantitative immunohistochemistry coupled with a digital pathology platform, as
possible biomarkers of treatment response and clinical outcome.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: We identified 79 patients diagnosed with esophageal cancer
between October 1994 and September 2002, with biopsy tissue available, who
underwent neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy prior to surgery at the Massachusetts
General Hospital and used their archived, formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded
biopsy samples to create tissue microarrays (TMA). TMA sections were stained
using antibodies against proteins in various DNA repair pathways including XPF,
FANCD2, PAR, MLH1, PARP1, and phosphorylated MAPKAP kinase 2 (pMK2). Stained TMA 
slides were evaluated using machine-based image analysis, and scoring
incorporated both the intensity and the quantity of positive tumor nuclei.
Biomarker scores and clinical data were assessed for correlations with clinical
outcome.
RESULTS: Higher scores for MLH1 (p = 0.018) and lower scores for FANCD2 (p =
0.037) were associated with pathologic response to neoadjuvant chemoradiation on 
multivariable analysis. Staining of MLH1, PARP1, XPF, and PAR was associated with
recurrence-free survival, and staining of PARP1 and FANCD2 was associated with
overall survival on multivariable analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: DNA repair proteins analyzed by immunohistochemistry may be useful
as predictive markers for response to neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy in patients
with esophageal cancer. These results are hypothesis generating and need
confirmation in an independent data set.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2011.05.033 
PMID: 22000749  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1277. PLoS One. 2011;6(10):e25202. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0025202. Epub 2011 Oct 4.

Implementing prenatal diagnosis based on cell-free fetal DNA: accurate
identification of factors affecting fetal DNA yield.

Barrett AN(1), Zimmermann BG, Wang D, Holloway A, Chitty LS.

Author information: 
(1)NE Thames Regional Molecular Genetics Laboratories, Great Ormond Street
Hospital for Children, London, United Kingdom.

OBJECTIVE: Cell-free fetal DNA is a source of fetal genetic material that can be 
used for non-invasive prenatal diagnosis. Usually constituting less than 10% of
the total cell free DNA in maternal plasma, the majority is maternal in origin.
Optimizing conditions for maximizing yield of cell-free fetal DNA will be crucial
for effective implementation of testing. We explore factors influencing yield of 
fetal DNA from maternal blood samples, including assessment of collection tubes
containing cell-stabilizing agents, storage temperature, interval to sample
processing and DNA extraction method used.
METHODS: Microfluidic digital PCR was performed to precisely quantify male
(fetal) DNA, total DNA and long DNA fragments (indicative of maternal cellular
DNA). Real-time qPCR was used to assay for the presence of male SRY signal in
samples.
RESULTS: Total cell-free DNA quantity increased significantly with time in
samples stored in K(3)EDTA tubes, but only minimally in cell stabilizing tubes.
This increase was solely due to the presence of additional long fragment DNA,
with no change in quantity of fetal or short DNA, resulting in a significant
decrease in proportion of cell-free fetal DNA over time. Storage at 4 °C did not 
prevent these changes.
CONCLUSION: When samples can be processed within eight hours of blood draw,
K(3)EDTA tubes can be used. Prolonged transfer times in K(3)EDTA tubes should be 
avoided as the proportion of fetal DNA present decreases significantly; in these 
situations the use of cell stabilising tubes is preferable. The DNA extraction
kit used may influence success rate of diagnostic tests.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0025202 
PMCID: PMC3187716
PMID: 21998643  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1278. J Am Chem Soc. 2011 Nov 9;133(44):17705-12. doi: 10.1021/ja2060116. Epub 2011 Oct
13.

Multiplexed quantification of nucleic acids with large dynamic range using
multivolume digital RT-PCR on a rotational SlipChip tested with HIV and hepatitis
C viral load.

Shen F(1), Sun B, Kreutz JE, Davydova EK, Du W, Reddy PL, Joseph LJ, Ismagilov
RF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Institute for Biophysical Dynamics, The University
of Chicago, 929 East 57th Street, Chicago, Illinois 60637, United States.

In this paper, we are working toward a problem of great importance to global
health: determination of viral HIV and hepatitis C (HCV) loads under
point-of-care and resource limited settings. While antiretroviral treatments are 
becoming widely available, viral load must be evaluated at regular intervals to
prevent the spread of drug resistance and requires a quantitative measurement of 
RNA concentration over a wide dynamic range (from 50 up to 10(6) molecules/mL for
HIV and up to 10(8) molecules/mL for HCV). "Digital" single molecule measurements
are attractive for quantification, but the dynamic range of such systems is
typically limited or requires excessive numbers of compartments. Here we designed
and tested two microfluidic rotational SlipChips to perform multivolume digital
RT-PCR (MV digital RT-PCR) experiments with large and tunable dynamic range.
These designs were characterized using synthetic control RNA and validated with
HIV viral RNA and HCV control viral RNA. The first design contained 160 wells of 
each of four volumes (125 nL, 25 nL, 5 nL, and 1 nL) to achieve a dynamic range
of 5.2 × 10(2) to 4.0 × 10(6) molecules/mL at 3-fold resolution. The second
design tested the flexibility of this approach, and further expanded it to allow 
for multiplexing while maintaining a large dynamic range by adding additional
wells with volumes of 0.2 nL and 625 nL and dividing the SlipChip into five
regions to analyze five samples each at a dynamic range of 1.8 × 10(3) to 1.2 ×
10(7) molecules/mL at 3-fold resolution. No evidence of cross-contamination was
observed. The multiplexed SlipChip can be used to analyze a single sample at a
dynamic range of 1.7 × 10(2) to 2.0 × 10(7) molecules/mL at 3-fold resolution
with limit of detection of 40 molecules/mL. HIV viral RNA purified from clinical 
samples were tested on the SlipChip, and viral load results were self-consistent 
and in good agreement with results determined using the Roche COBAS
AmpliPrep/COBAS TaqMan HIV-1 Test. With further validation, this SlipChip should 
become useful to precisely quantify viral HIV and HCV RNA for high-performance
diagnostics in resource-limited settings. These microfluidic designs should also 
be valuable for other diagnostic and research applications, including detecting
rare cells and rare mutations, prenatal diagnostics, monitoring residual disease,
and quantifying copy number variation and gene expression patterns. The theory
for the design and analysis of multivolume digital PCR experiments is presented
in other work by Kreutz et al.

DOI: 10.1021/ja2060116 
PMCID: PMC3216675
PMID: 21995644  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1279. Methods Mol Biol. 2012;799:37-53. doi: 10.1007/978-1-61779-346-2_3.

Detection of Neisseria meningitidis in cerebrospinal fluid using a multiplex PCR 
and the Luminex detection technology.

Møller JK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Microbiology, Vejle Hospital, Vejle, Denmark.
jkm@dadlnet.dk

Rapid clinical and laboratory diagnoses are the foundation for a successful
management of serious infections with Neisseria meningitidis. A species-specific 
multiplex polymerase chain reaction (PCR) coupled with fluidic microarrays using 
microbeads (the Luminex xMAP™ Technology) can detect pathogens most frequently
found in the cerebrospinal fluid of patients. The Luminex suspension array system
uniquely combines flow cytometry, microspheres, laser technology, digital signal 
processing, and traditional chemistry. In this method, the reaction is carried
out in one vessel, in which distinctly color-coded bead sets, each conjugated
with a different specific nucleic acid reactant, are hybridized with the PCR
products, and a reporter molecule is used to quantify the interaction. The
flow-based Luminex array reader identifies each reaction (bead set) after
excitation by a red classification laser. Reporter signals from each reaction are
simultaneously quantified by fluorescence generated by a green reporter laser.
This nonculture, multiplex assay may prove to be an important tool for optimal
laboratory diagnosis, not only of meningococcal meningitis, but also of
meningitis caused by other bacterial or viral pathogens.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-61779-346-2_3 
PMID: 21993638  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1280. Minerva Urol Nefrol. 2011 Sep;63(3):183-90.

Association between genetic variants in glutathione peroxidase 1 (GPx1) gene, GPx
activity and the risk of prostate cancer.

Kucukgergin C(1), Gokpinar M, Sanli O, Tefik T, Oktar T, Seckin S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Istanbul Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul University,
Istanbul, Turkey.

AIM: The aim of this study was to investigate the association between GPx1
Pro198Leu polymorphism with the development and progression of prostate cancer
(PCa) and evaluate whether smoking status and advanced age could modify this
association.
METHODS: A total of 134 PCa patients and 159 healthy control subjects with serum 
prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels <4 ng/mL and normal digital rectal
examination (DRE) findings were enrolled in this prospectively designed study.
PCA patients were classified as low (T1 or T2 and N0M0 stages) and high stage
disease (T3 or T4 and N0M0 or N1 or M1 stages). GPx1 Pro198Leu polymorphism was
determined using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) restriction fragment length
polymorphism (RFLP). Logistic regression analysis was used to estimate odds
ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (95%CI).
RESULTS: Compared to the carriers of Pro/Pro genotype, subjects with the variant 
genotypes (Pro/Leu or Leu/Leu) had significantly higher risk of PCa. The Leu/Leu 
genotype was correlated with lower GPx activity among both controls and PCa
patients. With respect to tumor stage, Leu/Leu genotype was more frequent in
patients with high stage disease than those of low stage disease. In stratified
analyses, although the variant Leu/Leu genotype was significantly associated with
increased risk of PCa in older age, smoking did not alter this association.
CONCLUSION: The present data provide evidence that GPx1 Pro198Leu polymorphism
may be associated with the development and progression of PCa and older ages may 
influence the association.between GPx1 Pro198Leu polymorphism and PCa.


PMID: 21993316  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1281. J Virol Methods. 2012 Jan;179(1):45-50. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2011.09.017. Epub
2011 Sep 29.

Digital PCR provides absolute quantitation of viral load for an occult RNA virus.

White RA 3rd(1), Quake SR, Curr K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering at Stanford University and Howard Hughes Medical 
Institute, Stanford, CA 94305, USA. raw937@gmail.com

Using a multiplexed LNA-based Taqman assay, RT-digital PCR (RT-dPCR) was
performed in a prefabricated microfluidic device that monitored absolute viral
load in native and immortalized cell lines, overall precision of detection, and
the absolute detection limit of an occult RNA virus GB Virus Type C (GBV-C).
RT-dPCR had on average a 10% lower overall coefficient of variation (CV, a
measurement of precision) for viral load testing than RT-qPCR and had a higher
overall detection limit, able to quantify as low as three 5'-UTR molecules of
GBV-C genome. Two commercial high-yield in vitro transcription kits (T7 Ribomax
Express by Promega and Ampliscribe T7 Flash by Epicentre) were compared to
amplify GBV-C RNA genome with T7-mediated amplification. The Ampliscribe T7 Flash
outperformed the T7 Ribomax Express in yield of full-length GBV-C RNA genome.
THP-1 cells (a model of monocytic derived cells) were transfected with GBV-C,
yielding infectious virions that replicated over a 120h time course and could be 
infected directly. This study provides the first evidence of GBV-C replication in
monocytic derived clonal cells. Thus far, it is the only study using a
microfluidic device that measures directly viral load of mammalian RNA virus in a
digital format without need for a standard curve.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2011.09.017 
PMID: 21983150  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1282. Anal Chem. 2011 Nov 1;83(21):8158-68. doi: 10.1021/ac201658s. Epub 2011 Oct 7.

Theoretical design and analysis of multivolume digital assays with wide dynamic
range validated experimentally with microfluidic digital PCR.

Kreutz JE(1), Munson T, Huynh T, Shen F, Du W, Ismagilov RF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Institute for Biophysical Dynamics, The University
of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, United States.

This paper presents a protocol using theoretical methods and free software to
design and analyze multivolume digital PCR (MV digital PCR) devices; the theory
and software are also applicable to design and analysis of dilution series in
digital PCR. MV digital PCR minimizes the total number of wells required for
"digital" (single molecule) measurements while maintaining high dynamic range and
high resolution. In some examples, multivolume designs with fewer than 200 total 
wells are predicted to provide dynamic range with 5-fold resolution similar to
that of single-volume designs requiring 12,000 wells. Mathematical techniques
were utilized and expanded to maximize the information obtained from each
experiment and to quantify performance of devices and were experimentally
validated using the SlipChip platform. MV digital PCR was demonstrated to perform
reliably, and results from wells of different volumes agreed with one another. No
artifacts due to different surface-to-volume ratios were observed, and single
molecule amplification in volumes ranging from 1 to 125 nL was self-consistent.
The device presented here was designed to meet the testing requirements for
measuring clinically relevant levels of HIV viral load at the point-of-care (in
plasma, <500 molecules/mL to >1,000,000 molecules/mL), and the predicted
resolution and dynamic range was experimentally validated using a control
sequence of DNA. This approach simplifies digital PCR experiments, saves space,
and thus enables multiplexing using separate areas for each sample on one chip,
and facilitates the development of new high-performance diagnostic tools for
resource-limited applications. The theory and software presented here are general
and are applicable to designing and analyzing other digital analytical platforms 
including digital immunoassays and digital bacterial analysis. It is not limited 
to SlipChip and could also be useful for the design of systems on platforms
including valve-based and droplet-based platforms. In a separate publication by
Shen et al. (J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2011, DOI: 10.1021/ja2060116), this approach is
used to design and test digital RT-PCR devices for quantifying RNA.

DOI: 10.1021/ac201658s 
PMCID: PMC3216679
PMID: 21981344  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1283. Lab Chip. 2011 Nov 21;11(22):3838-45. doi: 10.1039/c1lc20561g. Epub 2011 Sep 29.

1-Million droplet array with wide-field fluorescence imaging for digital PCR.

Hatch AC(1), Fisher JS, Tovar AR, Hsieh AT, Lin R, Pentoney SL, Yang DL, Lee AP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of California-Irvine, Irvine,
CA 92697, USA.

Digital droplet reactors are useful as chemical and biological containers to
discretize reagents into picolitre or nanolitre volumes for analysis of single
cells, organisms, or molecules. However, most DNA based assays require processing
of samples on the order of tens of microlitres and contain as few as one to as
many as millions of fragments to be detected. Presented in this work is a droplet
microfluidic platform and fluorescence imaging setup designed to better meet the 
needs of the high-throughput and high-dynamic-range by integrating multiple
high-throughput droplet processing schemes on the chip. The design is capable of 
generating over 1-million, monodisperse, 50 picolitre droplets in 2-7 minutes
that then self-assemble into high density 3-dimensional sphere packing
configurations in a large viewing chamber for visualization and analysis. This
device then undergoes on-chip polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification and
fluorescence detection to digitally quantify the sample's nucleic acid contents. 
Wide-field fluorescence images are captured using a low cost 21-megapixel digital
camera and macro-lens with an 8-12 cm(2) field-of-view at 1× to 0.85×
magnification, respectively. We demonstrate both end-point and real-time imaging 
ability to perform on-chip quantitative digital PCR analysis of the entire
droplet array. Compared to previous work, this highly integrated design yields a 
100-fold increase in the number of on-chip digitized reactors with simultaneous
fluorescence imaging for digital PCR based assays.

DOI: 10.1039/c1lc20561g 
PMID: 21959960  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1284. Ann Rheum Dis. 2012 Mar;71(3):415-23. doi: 10.1136/ard.2010.143529. Epub 2011 Sep
27.

Selective involvement of ERK and JNK mitogen-activated protein kinases in early
rheumatoid arthritis (1987 ACR criteria compared to 2010 ACR/EULAR criteria): a
prospective study aimed at identification of diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers
as well as therapeutic targets.

de Launay D(1), van de Sande MG, de Hair MJ, Grabiec AM, van de Sande GP, Lehmann
KA, Wijbrandts CA, van Baarsen LG, Gerlag DM, Tak PP, Reedquist KA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Clinical Immunology and Rheumatology, Academic Medical Center,
University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the expression and activation of mitogen-activated
protein kinases in patients with early arthritis who are disease-modifying
antirheumatic drug (DMARD) naïve.
METHODS: A total of 50 patients with early arthritis who were DMARD naïve
(disease duration <1 year) were prospectively followed and diagnosed at baseline 
and after 2 years for undifferentiated arthritis (UA), rheumatoid arthritis (RA) 
(1987 American College of Rheumatology (ACR) and 2010 ACR/European League Against
Rheumatism (EULAR) criteria), or spondyloarthritis (SpA). Synovial biopsies
obtained at baseline were examined for expression and phosphorylation of p38,
extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK) and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) by 
immunohistochemistry and digital analysis. Synovial tissue mRNA expression was
measured by quantitative PCR (qPCR).
RESULTS: ERK and JNK activation was enhanced at inclusion in patients meeting RA 
criteria compared to other diagnoses. JNK activation was enhanced in patients
diagnosed as having UA at baseline who eventually fulfilled 1987 ACR RA criteria 
compared to those who remained UA, and in patients with RA fulfilling 2010
ACR/EULAR criteria at baseline. ERK and JNK activation was enhanced in patients
with RA developing progressive joint destruction. JNK activation in UA predicted 
1987 ACR RA classification criteria fulfilment (R(2)=0.59, p=0.02) after
follow-up, and disease progression in early arthritis (R(2)=0.16, p<0.05).
Enhanced JNK activation in patients with persistent disease was associated with
altered synovial expression of extracellular matrix components and CD44.
CONCLUSIONS: JNK activation is elevated in RA before 1987 ACR RA classification
criteria are met and predicts development of erosive disease in early arthritis, 
suggesting JNK may represent an attractive target in treating RA early in the
disease process.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.2010.143529 
PMCID: PMC3277721
PMID: 21953337  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1285. Equine Vet J. 2012 Mar;44(2):230-7. doi: 10.1111/j.2042-3306.2011.00416.x. Epub
2011 Sep 5.

Digital hypothermia inhibits early lamellar inflammatory signalling in the
oligofructose laminitis model.

van Eps AW(1), Leise BS, Watts M, Pollitt CC, Belknap JK.

Author information: 
(1)Australian Equine Laminitis Research Unit, School of Veterinary Science, The
University of Queensland, Queensland, Australia.

REASONS FOR PERFORMING STUDY: The pathophysiological events inhibited by
prophylactic digital hypothermia that result in reduction of the severity of
acute laminitis are unknown.
OBJECTIVES: To determine if digital hypothermia inhibits lamellar inflammatory
signalling during development of oligofructose (OF) induced laminitis.
METHODS: Fourteen Standardbred horses were given 10 g/kg bwt OF by nasogastric
tube with one forelimb (CRYO) continuously cooled by immersion in ice and water
and one forelimb (NON-RX) at ambient temperature. Lamellae were harvested prior
to the onset of lameness (24 h post OF administration, DEV group, n = 7) or at
the onset of lameness (OG1 group, n = 7). Lamellar mRNA was purified and cDNA
produced for real time-quantitative PCR analysis of mRNA concentrations of
cytokines (IL-6, IL-1β, IL-10), chemokines (CXCL1, CXCL6, CXCL8/IL-8, MCP-1,
MCP-2), cell adhesion molecules (ICAM-1, E-selectin), COX-2 and 3 housekeeping
genes. Data were analysed (NON-RX vs. CRYO, NON-RX vs. archived control [CON, n =
7] lamellar tissue) using nonparametric tests.
RESULTS: Compared with CON, the OG1 NON-RX had increased (P<0.05) lamellar mRNA
concentrations of all measured mediators except IL-10, IL-1β and MCP-1/2, whereas
only CXCL8 was increased (P<0.05) in DEV NON-RX. Within the OG1 group, CRYO limbs
(compared with NON-RX) had decreased (P<0.05) mRNA concentrations of the majority
of measured inflammatory mediators (no change in MCP-1 and IL-10). Within the DEV
group, mRNA concentrations of CXCL-1, ICAM-1, IL-1β, CXCL8 and MCP-2 were
decreased (P<0.05) and the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 was increased
(compared with NON-RX limbs; P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Digital hypothermia effectively blocked early lamellar inflammatory 
events likely to play an important role in lamellar injury including the
expression of chemokines, proinflammatory cytokines, COX-2 and endothelial
adhesion molecules.
POTENTIAL RELEVANCE: This study demonstrates a potential mechanism by which
hypothermia reduces the severity of acute laminitis, and may help identify
molecular targets for future laminitis intervention.

© 2011 EVJ Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.2042-3306.2011.00416.x 
PMID: 21895750  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1286. Genet Med. 2011 Dec;13(12):1025-31. doi: 10.1097/GIM.0b013e3182272e0b.

Allelic discrimination of cis-trans relationships by digital polymerase chain
reaction: GJB2 (p.V27I/p.E114G) and CFTR (p.R117H/5T).

Chen N(1), Schrijver I.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, California, 
USA.

PURPOSE: : To distinguish the cis-trans relationship of two sequence changes and 
to arrive at an accurate molecular diagnosis for autosomal recessive disorders,
methods such as Sanger sequencing cannot differentiate whether sequence changes
are in cis or trans. In addition, most techniques theoretically appropriate for
allelic discrimination depend on the specific identified sequence changes for
assay design, need extensive optimization, or may not be suitable. We developed a
method that does not fully depend on the specific nucleotide changes. It enables 
efficient assay design and practical implementation of allelic discrimination.
METHODS: : Digital polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to separate and
amplify alleles. Sanger sequencing was subsequently used to identify sequence
changes.
RESULTS: : We developed a cost-effective digital PCR method for allelic
discrimination of short amplicons and demonstrated it with p.Val27Ile and
p.Glu114Gly in GJB2 as an example. We also successfully developed a long-range
digital PCR approach to determine the cis-trans relationship of p.Arg117His and
5T in the CFTR gene.
CONCLUSION: : Digital PCR for allelic discrimination can be clinically
implemented to determine the allelic configuration of relatively common sequence 
changes which frequently appear together and have clinical ramifications, such as
the combination of p.Val27Ile and p.Glu114Gly in the GJB2 gene and p.Arg117His
and 5T in CFTR.

DOI: 10.1097/GIM.0b013e3182272e0b 
PMID: 21836520  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1287. PLoS One. 2011;6(8):e23142. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0023142. Epub 2011 Aug 4.

Whole transcriptome profiling of successful immune response to Vibrio infections 
in the oyster Crassostrea gigas by digital gene expression analysis.

de Lorgeril J(1), Zenagui R, Rosa RD, Piquemal D, Bachère E.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Français de Recherche pour l'Exploitation de la Mer, Centre National 
de la Recherche Scientifique, Montpellier, France.

The cultivated Pacific oyster Crassostrea gigas has suffered for decades large
scale summer mortality phenomenon resulting from the interaction between the
environment parameters, the oyster physiological and/or genetic status and the
presence of pathogenic microorganisms including Vibrio species. To obtain a
general picture of the molecular mechanisms implicated in C. gigas immune
responsiveness to circumvent Vibrio infections, we have developed the first deep 
sequencing study of the transcriptome of hemocytes, the immunocompetent cells.
Using Digital Gene Expression (DGE), we generated a transcript catalog of
up-regulated genes from oysters surviving infection with virulent Vibrio strains 
(Vibrio splendidus LGP32 and V. aestuarianus LPi 02/41) compared to an avirulent 
one, V. tasmaniensis LMG 20012(T). For that an original experimental infection
protocol was developed in which only animals that were able to survive infections
were considered for the DGE approach. We report the identification of cellular
and immune functions that characterize the oyster capability to survive
pathogenic Vibrio infections. Functional annotations highlight genes related to
signal transduction of immune response, cell adhesion and communication as well
as cellular processes and defence mechanisms of phagocytosis, actin cytosqueleton
reorganization, cell trafficking and autophagy, but also antioxidant and
anti-apoptotic reactions. In addition, quantitative PCR analysis reveals the
first identification of pathogen-specific signatures in oyster gene regulation,
which opens the way for in depth molecular studies of oyster-pathogen interaction
and pathogenesis. This work is a prerequisite for the identification of those
physiological traits controlling oyster capacity to survive a Vibrio infection
and, subsequently, for a better understanding of the phenomenon of summer
mortality.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0023142 
PMCID: PMC3150398
PMID: 21829707  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1288. Zhongguo Zhong Xi Yi Jie He Za Zhi. 2011 Jun;31(6):799-802.

[Effect of ginsenoside Rg1 on the spatial learning-memory ability in dementia
rats after transplanted with bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells].

[Article in Chinese]

Wu W(1), Yang JQ, He ZY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Brain Recovery Center, Second Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou
Medical College, Zhejiang 325027.

OBJECTIVE: To study the effect and mechanism of ginsenoside Rg1 on the spatial
learning-memory ability in rats with Alzheimer's disease after transplanted with 
bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs).
METHODS: Using digital randomization table method, seventy-five male SD rats were
divided into the bilateral FF transection model group (as the model group:
ambi-hippocampal fimbria-fomix transected), the sham-operative control group (the
SOC group: receiving the same modeling process as the model group, but without
ambi-hippocampal fimbria-fomix transected), the ginsenoside Rg1 treatment group
(as the treatment group: Two weeks after modeling ginsenoside Rg1 was
peritoneally injected at the dose of 5 mg/kg, once daily for four weeks in
total), the BMSCs transplanted treatment group [as the control group: Two weeks
after modeling every rat received transplantation of BMSCs (10 microL, 1 x 10(6) 
cells)], and the ginsenoside Rg1 + BMSCs treatment group (as the combination
group: They received both transplantation of BMSCs and peritoneal injection of
ginsenoside Rgl). The spatial learning-memory ability of rats was detected by
Morris water maze and the escape latency (s) was recorded, mRNA expression of
nerve growth factor (NGF) was detected using Real-time PCR.
RESULTS: Six weeks after the hippocampal fimbria-fomix (FF) transection, the
escape latency o feach medication group was obviously shorter than that of the
model group, and the spatial learning-memory ability of dementia rats was
somewhat improved. The spatial learning-memory ability of rats in the combination
group was (29.95 +/- 2.03) and the mRNA expression level of NGF was (1.13 +/-
0.15), better than those in the BMSCs group (44.36 +/- 1.43, 0.78 +/- 0.09,
P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Ginsenoside Rg1 could strengthen the spatial learning-memory ability
in dementia rats after transplanted with BMSCs. Its mechanism might be possibly
correlated with up-regulating mRNA expression of NGF in basal forebrain after
BMSCs transplantation.


PMID: 21823427  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1289. DNA Res. 2011 Oct;18(5):363-77. doi: 10.1093/dnares/dsr024. Epub 2011 Jul 27.

Genome-wide identification, classification, and expression analysis of
autophagy-associated gene homologues in rice (Oryza sativa L.).

Xia K(1), Liu T, Ouyang J, Wang R, Fan T, Zhang M.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Plant Resources Conservation and Sustainable Utilization,
South China Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou 510650, PR
China.

Autophagy is an intracellular degradation process for recycling macromolecules
and organelles. It plays important roles in plant development and in response to 
nutritional demand, stress, and senescence. Organisms from yeast to plants
contain many autophagy-associated genes (ATG). In this study, we found that a
total of 33 ATG homologues exist in the rice [Oryza sativa L. (Os)] genome, which
were classified into 13 ATG subfamilies. Six of them are alternatively spliced
genes. Evolutional analysis showed that expansion of 10 OsATG homologues occurred
via segmental duplication events and that the occurrence of these OsATG
homologues within each subfamily was asynchronous. The Ka/Ks ratios suggested
purifying selection for four duplicated OsATG homologues and positive selection
for two. Calculating the dates of the duplication events indicated that all
duplication events might have occurred after the origin of the grasses, from
21.43 to 66.77 million years ago. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis and mining
the digital expression database of rice showed that all 33 OsATG homologues could
be detected in at least one cell type of the various tissues under normal or
stress growth conditions, but their expression was tightly regulated. The 10
duplicated genes showed expression divergence. The expression of most OsATG
homologues was regulated by at least one treatment, including hormones, abiotic
and biotic stresses, and nutrient limitation. The identification of OsATG
homologues showing constitutive expression or responses to environmental stimuli 
provides new insights for in-depth characterization of selected genes of
importance in rice.

DOI: 10.1093/dnares/dsr024 
PMCID: PMC3190957
PMID: 21795261  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1290. Pathol Res Pract. 2011 Aug 15;207(8):492-7. doi: 10.1016/j.prp.2011.06.003. Epub 
2011 Jul 20.

Evaluation of O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase by immunohistochemistry:
best clinical and research practices.

Neto JC(1), Carvalho K, Olivieri E, Carraro D, Cunha I, Vassallo J, Kagohara L,
Soares F, Rocha R.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Anatomic Pathology, Cancer Hospital A C Camargo, São Paulo, Brazil.

O6-Methyguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) repairs DNA damage and acts as a
tumor suppressor in normal cells by preventing DNA mutations. Several antibodies 
against MGMT are used for immunohistochemical assessment of this marker and no
universal standard is adopted. We evaluated the immunohistochemical expression of
MGMT with 5 commercially available primary antibodies in 59 invasive breast
carcinomas. A tissue microarray was constructed using 59 invasive breast
carcinoma samples. Five primary antibodies against MGMT were used for
immunohistochemistry, including clones MT3.1, SPM287, and MT23.2. Heat-induced
antigen retrieval and polymer-based immunohistochemistry were performed. Stains
were analyzed by microscopy and automated digital slide technology. qRT-PCR was
performed for all tumors. Clone SPM287 had the highest sensitivity (p<0.001), and
clone MT3.1 had the lowest sensitivity (p<0.001). Clone MT23.2 generated higher
levels of cytoplasmic staining, which was not observed with the other antibodies 
(p<0.001). Fifty-six samples (94.9%) showed hypoexpression of MGMT compared with 
normal breast, as measured by qRT-PCR (p<0.001). Only clone SPM287 correlated
significantly with the qRT-PCR results (p=0.027). Antibody clone SPM287 is the
most sensitive and specific antibody for the immunohistochemical evaluation of
MGMT, rendering it a reliable and effective reagent for research and clinical
practice in breast cancer.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prp.2011.06.003 
PMID: 21767920  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1291. BMC Med Genomics. 2011 Jul 19;4:60. doi: 10.1186/1755-8794-4-60.

Digital karyotyping reveals probable target genes at 7q21.3 locus in
hepatocellular carcinoma.

Dong H(1), Zhang H, Liang J, Yan H, Chen Y, Shen Y, Kong Y, Wang S, Zhao G, Jin
W.

Author information: 
(1)Chinese National Human Genome Center at Shanghai, Shanghai 201203, China.
dongh@chgc.sh.cn

BACKGROUND: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a worldwide malignant liver tumor
with high incidence in China. Subchromosomal amplifications and deletions
accounted for major genomic alterations occurred in HCC. Digital karyotyping was 
an effective method for analyzing genome-wide chromosomal aberrations at high
resolution.
METHODS: A digital karyotyping library of HCC was constructed and 454 Genome
Sequencer FLX System (Roche) was applied in large scale sequencing of the
library. Digital Karyotyping Data Viewer software was used to analyze genomic
amplifications and deletions. Genomic amplifications of genes detected by digital
karyotyping were examined by real-time quantitative PCR. The mRNA expression
level of these genes in tumorous and paired nontumorous tissues was also detected
by real-time quantitative RT-PCR.
RESULTS: A total of 821,252 genomic tags were obtained from the digital
karyotyping library of HCC, with 529,162 tags (64%) mapped to unique loci of
human genome. Multiple subchromosomal amplifications and deletions were detected 
through analyzing the digital karyotyping data, among which the amplification of 
7q21.3 drew our special attention. Validation of genes harbored within amplicons 
at 7q21.3 locus revealed that genomic amplification of SGCE, PEG10, DYNC1I1 and
SLC25A13 occurred in 11 (21%), 11 (21%), 11 (21%) and 23 (44%) of the 52 HCC
samples respectively. Furthermore, the mRNA expression level of SGCE, PEG10 and
DYNC1I1 were significantly up-regulated in tumorous liver tissues compared with
corresponding nontumorous counterparts.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicated that subchromosomal region of 7q21.3 was
amplified in HCC, and SGCE, PEG10 and DYNC1I1 were probable protooncogenes
located within the 7q21.3 locus.

DOI: 10.1186/1755-8794-4-60 
PMCID: PMC3152898
PMID: 21767414  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1292. Vet Microbiol. 2011 Dec 15;153(3-4):315-22. doi: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2011.06.005.
Epub 2011 Jun 15.

Identification of immunogenic proteins in Treponema phagedenis-like strain V1
from digital dermatitis lesions by phage display.

Rosander A(1), Guss B, Frykberg L, Björkman C, Näslund K, Pringle M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences and Veterinary Public Health, Swedish
University of Agricultural Sciences, Box 7009, SE-750 07 Uppsala, Sweden.
anna.rosander@bvf.slu.se

Digital dermatitis (DD) is a contagious claw disease causing lameness in cattle, 
affecting both animal welfare and economics. In this study, shotgun phage display
was used to identify immunogenic proteins in a strain (V1) of the Treponema
phylotype closely related to Treponema phagedenis, indicated as a key agent in
the pathogenesis of DD. A genomic phage library was constructed and selected
against antibodies from a rabbit immunized with live strain V1 bacteria. A
homolog to the immunogenic protein TmpA of Treponema pallidum subsp. pallidum was
identified, as well as a putative phage tail tape measure protein (Ttm), and a
putative proline-rich repeat lipoprotein (PrrA). The complete amino acid
sequences of these proteins were predicted from a genomic sequence of strain V1
generated by 454 Sequencing™. The presence of these genes in ten Treponema spp.
field isolates was investigated by PCR. The tmpA and ttm genes were detected in
all T. phagedenis-like isolates while prrA was detected in four out of seven.
None of the genes were detected in the three Treponema pedis isolates
investigated. Recombinant proteins were produced and used in indirect ELISAs. For
all three proteins, a majority of serum samples from cattle with DD (n=8) showed 
higher optical density values than samples from cattle without DD (n=7).

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2011.06.005 
PMID: 21763087  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1293. Nat Methods. 2011 Jul 3;8(8):649-51. doi: 10.1038/nmeth.1640.

Megapixel digital PCR.

Heyries KA(1), Tropini C, Vaninsberghe M, Doolin C, Petriv OI, Singhal A, Leung
K, Hughesman CB, Hansen CL.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for High-Throughput Biology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
British Columbia, Canada.

We present a microfluidic 'megapixel' digital PCR device that uses surface
tension-based sample partitioning and dehydration control to enable high-fidelity
single DNA molecule amplification in 1,000,000 reactors of picoliter volume with 
densities up to 440,000 reactors cm(-2). This device achieves a dynamic range of 
10(7), single-nucleotide-variant detection below one copy per 100,000 wild-type
sequences and the discrimination of a 1% difference in chromosome copy number.

DOI: 10.1038/nmeth.1640 
PMID: 21725299  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1294. Science. 2011 Jul 1;333(6038):58-62. doi: 10.1126/science.1200758.

Probing individual environmental bacteria for viruses by using microfluidic
digital PCR.

Tadmor AD(1), Ottesen EA, Leadbetter JR, Phillips R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, CA 91125, USA. arbel@caltech.edu

Comment in
    Science. 2011 Jul 1;333(6038):45-6.

Viruses may very well be the most abundant biological entities on the planet. Yet
neither metagenomic studies nor classical phage isolation techniques have shed
much light on the identity of the hosts of most viruses. We used a microfluidic
digital polymerase chain reaction (PCR) approach to physically link single
bacterial cells harvested from a natural environment with a viral marker gene.
When we implemented this technique on the microbial community residing in the
termite hindgut, we found genus-wide infection patterns displaying remarkable
intragenus selectivity. Viral marker allelic diversity revealed restricted mixing
of alleles between hosts, indicating limited lateral gene transfer of these
alleles despite host proximity. Our approach does not require culturing hosts or 
viruses and provides a method for examining virus-bacterium interactions in many 
environments.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1200758 
PMCID: PMC3261838
PMID: 21719670  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1295. Transfus Apher Sci. 2011 Aug;45(1):45-51. doi: 10.1016/j.transci.2011.06.002.
Epub 2011 Jun 28.

Advances in transfusion medicine in the first decade of the 21st century:
Advances in miniaturized technologies.

Petrik J(1), Coste J, Fournier-Wirth C.

Author information: 
(1)Scottish National Blood Transfusion Service, Edinburgh, UK.
juraj.petrik@nhs.net

Several miniaturized high throughput technologies have been developed in the last
decade, primarily to study genomic structures and gene expression patterns under 
various conditions. At the same time, the microarrays, biosensors, integrated
microfluidic lab-on-a-chip devices, next generation sequencing or digital PCR are
gradually finding their diagnostic applications, although their suitability for
specialised diagnostic fields has still to be assessed. In this review we discuss
the potential applications of the new technologies to blood testing.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transci.2011.06.002 
PMID: 21715229  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1296. Lab Chip. 2011 Aug 7;11(15):2509-17. doi: 10.1039/c0lc00553c. Epub 2011 Jun 14.

Tunable 3D droplet self-assembly for ultra-high-density digital micro-reactor
arrays.

Hatch AC(1), Fisher JS, Pentoney SL, Yang DL, Lee AP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of California-Irvine, 3120
Natural Sciences II, Irvine, CA 92697, USA.

We present a tunable three-dimensional (3D) self-assembled droplet packing method
to achieve high-density micro-reactor arrays for greater imaging efficiency and
higher-throughput chemical and biological assays. We demonstrate the capability
of this platform's high-density imaging method by performing single molecule
quantification using digital polymerase chain reaction, or digital PCR, in
multiple self-assembled colloid-like crystal lattice configurations. By
controlling chamber height to droplet diameter ratios we predictively control
three-dimensional packing configurations with varying degrees of droplet overlap 
to increase droplet density and imaging sensor area coverage efficiency.
Fluorescence imaging of the densely packed 3D reactor arrays, up to three layers 
high, demonstrates high throughput quantitative analysis of single-molecule
reactions. Now a greater number of microreactors can be observed and studied in a
single picture frame without the need for confocal imaging, slide scanners, or
complicated image processing techniques. Compared to 2D designs, tunable 3D
reactor arrays yield up to a threefold increase in density and use 100% of the
sensor's imaging area to enable simultaneous imaging a larger number of reactions
without sacrificing digital quantification performance. This novel approach
provides an important advancement for ultra-high-density reactor arrays.

This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2011

DOI: 10.1039/c0lc00553c 
PMID: 21670837  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1297. Mutat Res. 2012 Feb 1;730(1-2):59-67. doi: 10.1016/j.mrfmmm.2011.04.003. Epub
2011 Jun 12.

Telomere length measurement-caveats and a critical assessment of the available
technologies and tools.

Aubert G(1), Hills M, Lansdorp PM.

Author information: 
(1)Terry Fox Laboratory, BC Cancer Agency, Vancouver BC, Canada.

Studies of telomeres and telomere biology often critically rely on the detection 
of telomeric DNA and measurements of the length of telomere repeats in either
single cells or populations of cells. Several methods are available that provide 
this type of information and it is often not clear what method is most
appropriate to address a specific research question. The major variables that
need to be considered are the material that is or can be made available and the
accuracy of measurements that is required. The goal of this review is to provide 
a comprehensive summary of the most commonly used methods and discuss the
advantages and disadvantages of each. Methods that start with genomic DNA include
telomere restriction fragment (TRF) length analysis, PCR amplification of
telomere repeats relative to a single copy gene by Q-PCR or MMQPCR and single
telomere length analysis (STELA), a PCR-based approach that accurately measures
the full spectrum of telomere lengths from individual chromosomes. A different
set of methods relies on fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) to detect
telomere repeats in individual cells or chromosomes. By including essential
calibration steps and appropriate controls these methods can be used to measure
telomere repeat length or content in chromosomes and cells. Such methods include 
quantitative FISH (Q-FISH) and flow FISH which are based on digital microscopy
and flow cytometry, respectively. Here the basic principles of various telomere
length measurement methods are described and their strengths and weaknesses are
highlighted. Some recent developments in telomere length analysis are also
discussed. The information in this review should facilitate the selection of the 
most suitable method to address specific research question about telomeres in
either model organisms or human subjects.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mrfmmm.2011.04.003 
PMCID: PMC3460641
PMID: 21663926  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1298. Electrophoresis. 2011 Jun;32(12):1456-64. doi: 10.1002/elps.201100073. Epub 2011 
May 30.

PCR-free digital minisatellite tandem repeat genotyping.

Chen Y(1), Seo TS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering (BK21 program) and
Institute for the BioCentury, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,
Daejeon, Republic of Korea.

We demonstrated a proof-of-concept for novel minisatellite tandem repeat typing, 
called PCR-free digital VNTR (variable number tandem repeat) typing, which is
composed of three steps: a ligation reaction instead of PCR thermal cycling,
magnetic bead-based solid-phase capture for purification, and an elongated sample
stacking microcapillary electrophoresis (μCE) for sensitive digital coding of
repeat number. We designed a 16-bp fluorescently labeled ligation probe which is 
complementary to a repeat unit of a biotinylated synthetic template mimicking the
human D1S80 VNTR locus and is randomly hybridized with the minisatellite tandem
repeats. A quick isothermal ligation reaction was followed to link the adjacent
ligation probes on the DNA templates, and then the ligated products were purified
by streptavidin-coated magnetic beads. After a denaturing step, a large amount of
ligated products whose size difference was equivalent to the repeat unit were
released and recovered. Through the elongated sample stacking μCE separation on a
microdevice, the fluorescence signal of the ligated products was generated in the
electropherogram and the peak number was directly counted which was exactly
matched with the repeat number of VNTR locus. We could successfully identify the 
minisatellite tandem repeat number with only 5 fmol of DNA template in 30 min.

Copyright © 2011 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/elps.201100073 
PMID: 21626523  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1299. Exp Physiol. 2011 Sep;96(9):889-906. doi: 10.1113/expphysiol.2011.058396. Epub
2011 May 27.

Habitual exercise increases resistance of lymphocytes to oxidant-induced DNA
damage by upregulating expression of antioxidant and DNA repairing enzymes.

Siu PM(1), Pei XM, Teng BT, Benzie IF, Ying M, Wong SH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Health Technology and Informatics, The Hong Kong Polytechnic
University, Hung Hom, Kowloon, Hong Kong, China. htpsiu@inet.polyu.edu.hk

The underlying mechanisms of adaptation from staying physically active are not
completely revealed. This study examined the effects of 8 and 20 weeks of
habitual voluntary exercise on the susceptibility of lymphocytes to
oxidant-induced DNA damage, antioxidant enzyme activities in cardiac and skeletal
muscles, and circulatory antioxidant profile. Forty young adult rats were
randomly assigned to sedentary control and exercise groups for an experimental
period of 8 or 20 weeks. Animals assigned to exercise groups were subjected to 24
h daily free access to an in-cage running wheel with circumference of 1.19 m. A
magnetic digital counter was attached to the running wheel to record daily
exercise distance run by the animals. Control rats were housed in cages without a
running wheel, located next to the exercised animals. Body weight and food intake
were recorded weekly. After the experimental periods of 8 and 20 weeks, blood,
left ventricle, soleus and plantaris muscles were collected for analysis. No
significant difference was found in plasma total antioxidant capacity between
exercised and control animals in the 8 and 20 week groups according to our ferric
reducing/antioxidant power (FRAP) analysis. However, modified FRAP for ascorbic
acid (FRASC) analysis indicated that plasma ascorbic acid content was
significantly increased by 46 and 34% in 8 and 20 week exercise groups,
respectively, when compared with the corresponding control groups. Superoxide
dismutase (SOD) activity was significantly elevated by 39% in erythrocytes of
animals exercised for 8 weeks relative to control animals. In the 20 week
exercise group, Glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activity in ventricle and plantaris 
was significantly upregulated by 477 and 290%, respectively, relative to control 
values. As demonstrated by comet assay, the oxidant-induced DNA damage was
significantly reduced by 21 and 45% in lymphocytes of animals exercised for 8 and
20 weeks, respectively, when compared with the corresponding control lymphocytes.
Our qRT-PCR analysis showed that the transcript expression of SOD2 was
significantly elevated by 939% in lymphocytes of animals exercised for 8 weeks
relative to control animals. Increased expressions of SOD2 (by 19%), catalase
(25%), APEX nuclease (multifunctional DNA repair enzyme) 1 (APEX1; 46%), Protein 
kinase, DNA-activated, catalytic polypeptide (Prkdc; 9%) and
O-6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (Mgmt; 26%) were found in lymphocytes of 
animals exercised for 20 weeks relative to control rats. These results
demonstrate that habitual exercise confers increased resistance of lymphocytes to
oxidant-induced DNA damage, and this protective effect is possibly attributed to 
the regular exercise-induced elevated expression of antioxidant and DNA repairing
enzymes.

DOI: 10.1113/expphysiol.2011.058396 
PMID: 21622964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1300. Urol Oncol. 2013 Jul;31(5):566-71. doi: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2011.04.001. Epub 2011 
May 19.

Combining urinary detection of TMPRSS2:ERG and PCA3 with serum PSA to predict
diagnosis of prostate cancer.

Salami SS(1), Schmidt F, Laxman B, Regan MM, Rickman DS, Scherr D, Bueti G,
Siddiqui J, Tomlins SA, Wei JT, Chinnaiyan AM, Rubin MA, Sanda MG.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Urology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA 02215,
USA.

OBJECTIVES: We sought to develop a clinical algorithm combining serum PSA with
detection of TMPRSS2:ERG fusion and PCA3 in urine collected after digital rectal 
exam (post-DRE urine) to predict prostate cancer on subsequent biopsy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Post-DRE urine was collected in 48 consecutive patients
before prostate biopsy at 2 centers; quantitative reverse
transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was used to detect PCA3 and
TMPRSS2:ERG fusion transcript expression. Serum PSA was measured by clinical
assay. The performance of TMPRSS2:ERG fusion, PCA3, and serum PSA as biomarkers
predicting prostate cancer at biopsy was measured; a clinically practical
algorithm combining serum PSA with TMPRSS2:ERG and PCA3 in post-DRE urine to
predict prostate cancer was developed.
RESULTS: Post-DRE urine sediment provided informative RNA in 45 patients;
prostate cancer was present on subsequent biopsy in 15. TMPRSS2:ERG in post-DRE
urine was associated with prostate cancer (OR = 12.02; P < 0.001). PCA3 had the
highest sensitivity in predicting prostate cancer diagnosis (93%), whereas
TMPRSS2:ERG had the highest specificity (87%). TMPRSS2:ERG had the greatest
discriminatory value in predicting prostate cancer (AUC = 0.77 compared with 0.65
for PCA3 and 0.72 for serum PSA alone). Combining serum PSA, PCA3, and
TMPRSS2:ERG in a multivariable algorithm optimized for clinical utility improved 
cancer prediction (AUC = 0.88; specificity = 90% at 80% sensitivity).
CONCLUSIONS: A clinical algorithm specifying biopsy for all patients with PSA ≥
10 ng/ml, while restricting biopsy among those with PSA <10 ng/ml to only those
with detectable PCA3 or TMPRSS2:ERG in post-DRE urine, performed better than the 
individual biomarkers alone in predicting prostate cancer.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2011.04.001 
PMCID: PMC3210917
PMID: 21600800  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1301. Lab Chip. 2011 Jul 7;11(13):2156-66. doi: 10.1039/c1lc20128j. Epub 2011 May 19.

Quantitative and sensitive detection of rare mutations using droplet-based
microfluidics.

Pekin D(1), Skhiri Y, Baret JC, Le Corre D, Mazutis L, Salem CB, Millot F, El
Harrak A, Hutchison JB, Larson JW, Link DR, Laurent-Puig P, Griffiths AD, Taly V.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Science et d'Ingénierie Supramoléculaires (ISIS), Université de
Strasbourg, CNRS UMR 7006, 8 allée Gaspard Monge, BP 70028, F-67083 Strasbourg
Cedex, France.

Somatic mutations within tumoral DNA can be used as highly specific biomarkers to
distinguish cancer cells from their normal counterparts. These DNA biomarkers are
potentially useful for the diagnosis, prognosis, treatment and follow-up of
patients. In order to have the required sensitivity and specificity to detect
rare tumoral DNA in stool, blood, lymph and other patient samples, a simple,
sensitive and quantitative procedure to measure the ratio of mutant to wild-type 
genes is required. However, techniques such as dual probe TaqMan(®) assays and
pyrosequencing, while quantitative, cannot detect less than ∼1% mutant genes in a
background of non-mutated DNA from normal cells. Here we describe a procedure
allowing the highly sensitive detection of mutated DNA in a quantitative manner
within complex mixtures of DNA. The method is based on using a droplet-based
microfluidic system to perform digital PCR in millions of picolitre droplets.
Genomic DNA (gDNA) is compartmentalized in droplets at a concentration of less
than one genome equivalent per droplet together with two TaqMan(®) probes, one
specific for the mutant and the other for the wild-type DNA, which generate green
and red fluorescent signals, respectively. After thermocycling, the ratio of
mutant to wild-type genes is determined by counting the ratio of green to red
droplets. We demonstrate the accurate and sensitive quantification of mutated
KRAS oncogene in gDNA. The technique enabled the determination of mutant allelic 
specific imbalance (MASI) in several cancer cell-lines and the precise
quantification of a mutated KRAS gene in the presence of a 200,000-fold excess of
unmutated KRAS genes. The sensitivity is only limited by the number of droplets
analyzed. Furthermore, by one-to-one fusion of drops containing gDNA with any one
of seven different types of droplets, each containing a TaqMan(®) probe specific 
for a different KRAS mutation, or wild-type KRAS, and an optical code, it was
possible to screen the six common mutations in KRAS codon 12 in parallel in a
single experiment.

This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2011

DOI: 10.1039/c1lc20128j 
PMID: 21594292  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1302. Lab Chip. 2011 Jul 7;11(13):2167-74. doi: 10.1039/c1lc20126c. Epub 2011 May 17.

Multiplex digital PCR: breaking the one target per color barrier of quantitative 
PCR.

Zhong Q(1), Bhattacharya S, Kotsopoulos S, Olson J, Taly V, Griffiths AD, Link
DR, Larson JW.

Author information: 
(1)RainDance Technologies, Inc., 44 Hartwell Ave., Lexington, MA 02150, USA.
larsonj@raindancetech.com

Quantitative polymerase chain reactions (qPCR) based on real-time PCR constitute 
a powerful and sensitive method for the analysis of nucleic acids. However, in
qPCR, the ability to multiplex targets using differently colored fluorescent
probes is typically limited to 4-fold by the spectral overlap of the
fluorophores. Furthermore, multiplexing qPCR assays requires expensive
instrumentation and most often lengthy assay development cycles. Digital PCR
(dPCR), which is based on the amplification of single target DNA molecules in
many separate reactions, is an attractive alternative to qPCR. Here we report a
novel and easy method for multiplexing dPCR in picolitre droplets within
emulsions-generated and read out in microfluidic devices-that takes advantage of 
both the very high numbers of reactions possible within emulsions (>10(6)) as
well as the high likelihood that the amplification of only a single target DNA
molecule will initiate within each droplet. By varying the concentration of
different fluorogenic probes of the same color, it is possible to identify the
different probes on the basis of fluorescence intensity. Adding multiple colors
increases the number of possible reactions geometrically, rather than linearly as
with qPCR. Accurate and precise copy numbers of up to sixteen per cell were
measured using a model system. A 5-plex assay for spinal muscular atrophy was
demonstrated with just two fluorophores to simultaneously measure the copy number
of two genes (SMN1 and SMN2) and to genotype a single nucleotide polymorphism
(c.815A>G, SMN1). Results of a pilot study with SMA patients are presented.

This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2011

DOI: 10.1039/c1lc20126c 
PMID: 21584334  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1303. Mol Biol Rep. 2012 Jan;39(1):193-8. doi: 10.1007/s11033-011-0725-2. Epub 2011 May
8.

Increased risk of advanced prostate cancer associated with MnSOD Ala-9-Val gene
polymorphism.

Kucukgergin C(1), Sanli O, Tefik T, Aydın M, Ozcan F, Seckin S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Istanbul Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul University,
Istanbul, Turkey.

We aimed to investigate the association between manganese superoxide dismutase
(MnSOD) Ala-9-Val gene polymorphism and the initiation and/or progression of
prostate cancer (PCa) as well as to evaluate its potential interactions with
advanced age and smoking status. MnSOD Ala-9-Val gene polymorphism was carried
out in 134 (mean age 64.1±7.48) PCa patients and 159 (mean age 62.5±7.53) healthy
controls with serum prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels (<4 ng/ml) and normal 
digital rectal examination (DRE) findings in this prospectively designed study.
PCa patients were classified as low stage disease (T1 or T2 and N0M0 stages) and 
high stage disease (T3 or T4 and N0M0 or N1 or M1 stages). Genotypes for MnSOD
Ala-9-Val gene polymorphism were identified by using polymerase chain
reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFPL). Despite lack of
association between different genotypes of MnSOD Ala-9-Val gene polymorphism and 
the presence of PCa, patients with Ala/Ala genotype were at an increased risk of 
high stage disease compared with those with the Val/Val genotype [odds ratio
(OR), 3.77; 95% CI, 1.30-10.94; P=0.012]. However, no significant difference was 
observed in the distribution of each genotype among PCa patients, with respect to
tumor grade. On the other hand, smoking status and aging did not seem to change
the association between genotypes and PCa risk. Ala/Ala genotype of MnSOD
polymorphism may have an effect on adverse features of PCa such as high stage
disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-011-0725-2 
PMID: 21553226  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1304. Zhong Yao Cai. 2010 Dec;33(12):1841-4.

[Identification of medical Dendrobium herbs by ISSR marker].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang LC(1), Deng H, Yi Y, Zhang XM, Wang YZ, Lin JQ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Sciences, Guizhou Normal University, Guiyang 550001, China.

OBJECTIVE: A molecular biology method was studied to identify medical Dendrobium 
and to provide a method for quality control of these plants.
METHOD: ISSR primer was screened through ISSR-PCR reaction according to its gene 
resolving power, and digital barcodes were established for identification.
RESULTS: Screening 2 primers which Rp value above 8, This primers can identify
medical Dendrobium from 6 kinds 8 groups.
CONCLUSION: ISSR molecular maker technology is useful for identifying species and
habitats of medical Dendrobium plants.


PMID: 21548356  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1305. Expert Rev Mol Med. 2011 May 4;13:e16. doi: 10.1017/S1462399411001852.

Determination of fetal chromosome aberrations from fetal DNA in maternal blood:
has the challenge finally been met?

Hahn S(1), Lapaire O, Tercanli S, Kolla V, Hösli I.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Prenatal Medicine, Department of Biomedicine, University
Hospital Basel, Switzerland. shahn@uhbs.ch

The analysis of cell-free fetal nucleic acids in maternal blood for prenatal
diagnosis has been transformed by several recent profound technology
developments. The most noteworthy of these are 'digital PCR' and 'next-generation
sequencing' (NGS), which might finally deliver the long-sought goal of
noninvasive detection of fetal aneuploidy. Recent data, however, indicate that
NGS might even be able to offer a much more detailed appraisal of the fetal
genome, including paternal and maternal inheritance of point mutations for
mendelian disorders such as β-thalassaemia. Although these developments are very 
exciting, in their current form they are still too complex and costly, and will
need to be simplified considerably for their optimal translation to the clinic.
In this regard, targeted NGS does appear to be a step in the right direction,
although this should be seen in the context of ongoing progress with the
isolation of fetal cells and with proteomic screening markers.

DOI: 10.1017/S1462399411001852 
PMCID: PMC3087311
PMID: 21542948  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1306. Eur J Pharmacol. 2011 Jun 25;660(2-3):438-44. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2011.04.015. 
Epub 2011 Apr 27.

Hydroxysafflor yellow A protects against chronic carbon tetrachloride-induced
liver fibrosis.

Zhang Y(1), Guo J, Dong H, Zhao X, Zhou L, Li X, Liu J, Niu Y.

Author information: 
(1)The Institute of Medicine, Qiqihar Medical University, Qiqihar 161006, China.

Hydroxysafflor yellow A (HSYA) was isolated from the dried flower of Carthamus
tinctorius L. which was extensively used in traditional Chinese medicine to treat
cirrhosis. However, the potential protective effect of HSYA in liver fibrosis is 
still unknown. In the present study, we investigated the effects of HSYA in rats 
with carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced liver fibrosis. Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats
were subjected to biweekly CCl4 injections over 12 weeks, while controls were
given isovolumetric injections of olive oil. HSYA was given in a daily dose of 5 
mg/kg by means of intraperitoneal concurrent with CCl4. Hepatic fibrosis was
quantified by digital analysis of Masson's trichrome stained slides and
hydroxyproline content. mRNA expression was quantified by real-time polymerase
chain reaction (PCR), and protein was quantified by western blot or enzyme-linked
immunosorbent assay (ELISA). CCl4 treatment induced micronodular liver fibrosis
with a pronounced deposition of collagen fibers. HSYA significantly reduced liver
fibrosis. HSYA down regulates α-smooth muscle actin (SMA), collagen α type I,
matrix metalloproteinases (MMP)-9, and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases
(TIMP)-1 gene expression. This was accompanied by a decreased expression of
transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1 and phosphorylation of Smad4. These results
indicate that HSYA might be a promising antifibrotic agent in chronic liver
disease.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2011.04.015 
PMID: 21536026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1307. Prostate. 2011 Dec;71(16):1736-45. doi: 10.1002/pros.21390. Epub 2011 Apr 25.

A three-gene panel on urine increases PSA specificity in the detection of
prostate cancer.

Rigau M(1), Ortega I, Mir MC, Ballesteros C, Garcia M, Llauradó M, Colás E,
Pedrola N, Montes M, Sequeiros T, Ertekin T, Majem B, Planas J, Ruiz A, Abal M,
Sánchez A, Morote J, Reventós J, Doll A.

Author information: 
(1)Research Unit in Biomedicine and Translational and Pediatric Oncology, Vall
d'Hebron Research Institute, Barcelona, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Several studies have demonstrated the usefulness of monitoring an RNA
transcript, such as PCA3, in post-prostate massage (PM) urine for increasing the 
specificity of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) in the detection of prostate
cancer (PCa). However, a single marker may not necessarily reflect the
multifactorial nature of PCa.
METHODS: We analyzed post-PM urine samples from 154 consecutive patients, who
presented for prostate biopsies because of elevated serum PSA (>4 ng/ml) and/or
abnormal digital rectal exam. We tested whether the putative PCa biomarkers PSMA,
PSGR, and PCA3 could be detected by quantitative real-time PCR in post-PM urine
sediment. We combined these findings to test if a combination of these biomarkers
could improve the specificity of actual diagnosis. Afterwards, we specifically
tested our model for clinical usefulness in the PSA diagnostic "gray zone"
(4-10 ng/ml) on a target subset of 82 men with no prior biopsy.
RESULTS: By univariate analysis, we found that the PSMA, PSGR, and PCA3 scores
were significant predictors of PCa. Using a multiplex model, the area under the
multi receiver-operating characteristic curve was 0.74 versus 0.82 in the
diagnostic "gray zone." Fixing the sensitivity at 96%, we obtained a specificity 
of 34% and 50% in the gray zone.
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, these results provide a strategy for the development
of a more accurate model for PCa diagnosis. In the future, a multiplexed,
urine-based diagnostic test for PCa with a higher specificity, but the same
sensitivity as the serum-PSA test, could be used to determine better which
patients should undergo biopsy.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/pros.21390 
PMID: 21520154  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1308. Mycoses. 2011 Sep;54(5):e557-68. doi: 10.1111/j.1439-0507.2010.01989.x. Epub 2011
Apr 25.

Current issues in the clinical management of invasive aspergillosis--the AGIHO,
DMykG, ÖGMM and PEG web-based survey and expert consensus conference 2009.

Rüping MJ(1), Vehreschild JJ, Groll A, Lass-Flörl C, Ostermann H, Ruhnke M,
Cornely OA.

Author information: 
(1)1st Department of Internal Medicine, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.

The objectives of this study were to identify unsolved issues in the management
of invasive aspergillosis, identify controversies and achieve consensus. The
German Speaking Mycological Society (Deutschsprachige Mykologische Gesellschaft, 
DMykG) invited other German infectious diseases (ID) and mycological societies to
submit unsolved issues concerning the diagnosis and treatment of invasive
aspergillosis. Based on these contributions, a digital web-based questionnaire of
12 questions on Aspergillus spp. was designed to be completed by experts of the
participating societies. Controversial results were identified by a mathematical 
model and were discussed at a consensus conference during the 43rd Annual Meeting
of the DMykG in Cologne, Germany. Forty-two individuals completed the
questionnaire. Analysis showed a strong consensus on effective preventive
measures, choice of antifungal agents for pre-emptive, empiric and targeted
treatment, as well as the evaluation of early chest CT control scans as a measure
of treatment response assessment. Opinions on the indication for a pulmonary
biopsy of a halo sign in high-risk neutropenic patients and on the role of
Aspergillus spp. PCR as well as galactomannan from serum in the assessment of
treatment duration diverged in spite of discussion such that a consensus could
not be reached. Using a recently published two-step approach - web-based survey
plus classical panel discussion - expert consensus was achieved on 10 of 12
questions concerning the diagnosis and treatment of invasive aspergillosis.

© 2011 Blackwell Verlag GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1439-0507.2010.01989.x 
PMID: 21518025  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1309. Analyst. 2011 Jun 7;136(11):2252-9. doi: 10.1039/c0an00976h. Epub 2011 Apr 21.

Digital analysis of the expression levels of multiple colorectal cancer-related
genes by multiplexed digital-PCR coupled with hydrogel bead-array.

Qi Z(1), Ma Y, Deng L, Wu H, Zhou G, Kajiyama T, Kambara H.

Author information: 
(1)Huadong Research Institute for Medicine and Biotechnics, Nanjing 210002,
China.

To digitally analyze expression levels of multiple genes in one reaction, we
proposed a method termed as 'MDHB' (Multiplexed Digital-PCR coupled with Hydrogel
Bead-array). The template for bead-based emulsion PCR (emPCR) was prepared by
reverse transcription using sequence-tagged primers. The beads recovered from
emPCR were immobilized with hydrogel to form a single-bead layer on a chip, and
then decoded by gene-specific probe hybridization and Cy3-dUTP based primer
extension reaction. The specificity of probe hybridization was improved by using 
electrophoresis to remove mismatched probes on the bead's surface. The number of 
positive beads reflects the abundance of expressed genes; the expression levels
of target genes were normalized to a housekeeping gene and expressed as the
number ratio of green beads to red beads. The discrimination limit of MDHB is
0.1% (i.e., one target molecule from 1000 background molecules), and the
sensitivity of the method is below 100 cells when using the β-actin gene as the
detection target. We have successfully employed MDHB to detect the relative
expression levels of four colorectal cancer (CRC)-related genes (c-myc, COX-2,
MMP7, and DPEP1) in 8 tissue samples and 9 stool samples from CRC patients,
giving the detection rates of 100% and 77%, respectively. The results suggest
that MDHB could be a potential tool for early non-invasive diagnosis of CRC.

DOI: 10.1039/c0an00976h 
PMID: 21509397  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1310. J Pathol. 2011 Jun;224(2):153-9. doi: 10.1002/path.2887. Epub 2011 Apr 19.

Genomic evidence of pre-invasive clonal expansion, dispersal and progression in
bronchial dysplasia.

McCaughan F(1), Pipinikas CP, Janes SM, George PJ, Rabbitts PH, Dear PH.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge, UK. frankmc@mrc-lmb.cam.ac.uk

The term 'field cancerization' is used to describe an epithelial surface that has
a propensity to develop cancerous lesions, and in the case of the aerodigestive
tract this is often as a result of chronic exposure to carcinogens in cigarette
smoke 1, 2. The clinical endpoint is the development of multiple tumours, either 
simultaneously or sequentially in the same epithelial surface. The mechanisms
underlying this process remain unclear; one possible explanation is that the
epithelium is colonized by a clonal population of cells that are at increased
risk of progression to cancer. We now address this possibility in a short case
series, using individual genomic events as molecular biomarkers of clonality. In 
squamous lung cancer the most common genomic aberration is 3q amplification. We
use a digital PCR technique to assess the clonal relationships between multiple
biopsies in a longitudinal bronchoscopic study, using amplicon boundaries as
markers of clonality. We demonstrate that clonality can readily be defined by
these analyses and confirm that field cancerization occurs at a pre-invasive
stage and that pre-invasive lesions and subsequent cancers are clonally related. 
We show that while the amplicon boundaries can be shared between different
biopsies, the degree of 3q amplification and the internal structure of the 3q
amplicon varies from lesion to lesion. Finally, in this small cohort, the degree 
of 3q amplification corresponds to clinical progression.

Copyright © 2011 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by 
John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/path.2887 
PMCID: PMC3378694
PMID: 21506132  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1311. PLoS One. 2011 Apr 11;6(4):e18644. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0018644.

Second-generation sequencing supply an effective way to screen RNAi targets in
large scale for potential application in pest insect control.

Wang Y(1), Zhang H, Li H, Miao X.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Insect Developmental and Evolutionary Biology, Institute of 
Plant Physiology and Ecology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, People's
Republic of China.

The key of RNAi approach success for potential insect pest control is mainly
dependent on careful target selection and a convenient delivery system. We
adopted second-generation sequencing technology to screen RNAi targets.
Illumina's RNA-seq and digital gene expression tag profile (DGE-tag) technologies
were used to screen optimal RNAi targets from Ostrinia furnalalis. Total 14690
stage specific genes were obtained which can be considered as potential targets, 
and 47 were confirmed by qRT-PCR. Ten larval stage specific expression genes were
selected for RNAi test. When 50 ng/µl dsRNAs of the genes DS10 and DS28 were
directly sprayed on the newly hatched larvae which placed on the filter paper,
the larval mortalities were around 40∼50%, while the dsRNAs of ten genes were
sprayed on the larvae along with artificial diet, the mortalities reached 73% to 
100% at 5 d after treatment. The qRT-PCR analysis verified the correlation
between larval mortality and the down-regulation of the target gene expression.
Topically applied fluorescent dsRNA confirmed that dsRNA did penetrate the body
wall and circulate in the body cavity. It seems likely that the combination of
DGE-tag with RNA-seq is a rapid, high-throughput, cost less and an easy way to
select the candidate target genes for RNAi. More importantly, it demonstrated
that dsRNAs are able to penetrate the integument and cause larval developmental
stunt and/or death in a lepidopteron insect. This finding largely broadens the
target selection for RNAi from just gut-specific genes to the targets in whole
insects and may lead to new strategies for designing RNAi-based technology
against insect damage.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0018644 
PMCID: PMC3073972
PMID: 21494551  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1312. Vet Rec. 2011 Feb 26;168(8):214. doi: 10.1136/vr.c5487. Epub 2011 Feb 15.

Association between bovine digital dermatitis treponemes and a range of
'non-healing' bovine hoof disorders.

Evans NJ(1), Blowey RW, Timofte D, Isherwood DR, Brown JM, Murray R, Paton RJ,
Carter SD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Clinical Science, School of Veterinary Science,
University of Liverpool, UK. evansnj@liverpool.ac.uk

Comment in
    Vet Rec. 2011 Aug 27;169(9):236-7.

This study describes the association between bovine digital dermatitis (BDD)
treponemes and three 'non-healing' bovine hoof horn lesions, namely, 'toe
necrosis' (TN), 'non-healing white line disease' (nhWLD) and 'non-healing sole
ulcer' (nhSU), which are disorders that involve penetration through the horn
capsule to involve the corium. In this study, these non-healing disorders (n=44) 
were identified as foot lesions that exhibited a topical granular appearance,
exuded a typical pungent smell, were severely painful to the animal involved, and
typically originated from farms where BDD is endemic. Given the similarities
between these 'non-healing' lesions and BDD, the authors subjected samples of
diseased tissue to PCR assays to detect the presence of DNA of BDD treponemes.
All the three characterised BDD treponeme groups were identified as present
together in 84.2, 81.3 and 55.6 per cent of samples of TN (n=19), nhWLD (n=16)
and nhSU (n=9), respectively. In contrast, healthy control horn samples from
similar sites (n=16) were PCR-negative for the BDD treponemes. Hence, these
non-healing hoof lesions were strongly associated with BDD treponemes. Samples
from typical heel horn erosions (n=9) were also subjected to BDD treponeme PCR
assays and no association could be identified between the BDD treponemes and this
horn manifestation.

DOI: 10.1136/vr.c5487 
PMID: 21493554  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1313. Am J Med Genet A. 2011 May;155A(5):1152-6. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.33942. Epub 2011
Apr 11.

Somatic/gonadal mosaicism in a syndromic form of ectrodactyly, including eye
abnormalities, documented through array-based comparative genomic hybridization.

Filho AB(1), Souza J, Faucz FR, Sotomaior VS, Dupont B, Bartel F, Rodriguez R,
Schwartz CE, Skinner C, Alliman S, Raskin S.

Author information: 
(1)Group for Advanced Molecular Investigation, Graduate Program in Health
Sciences, Center for Biological and Health Sciences, Pontifícia Universidade
Católica do Parana, Curitiba, PR, Brazil.

Split hand/foot malformation (SHFM) is characterized by underdeveloped or absent 
central digital rays, clefts of hands and feet, and variable syndactyly of the
remaining digits. SHFM is a heterogeneous condition caused by abnormalities at
one of multiple loci, including SHFM1 (SHFM1 at 7q21-q22), SHFM2 (Xq26), SHFM3
(FBXW4/DACTYLIN at 10q24), SHFM4 (TP63 at 3q27), and SHFM5 (DLX1 and DLX 2 at
2q31). SHFM3 is unique in that it is caused by submicroscopic tandem chromosome
duplications of FBXW4/DACTYLIN. In order to show that array-based comparative
genomic hybridization should be considered an essential aspect of the genetic
analysis of patients with SHFM, we report on a family with two brothers who have 
ectrodactyly. Interestingly, both also have ocular abnormalities. Their sister
and both parents are healthy. DNA of all five family members was analyzed using
oligonucleotide-based DNA microarray and quantitative PCR. The two affected
brothers were found to have a small duplication of approximately 539 kb at
10q24.32. The patients' sister and father do not have the microduplication, but
qPCR showed that mother's DNA carries the duplication in 20% of blood
lymphocytes. In this family, two children were affected with ectrodactyly having 
a duplication over the SHFM3 locus. The mother, who shows no clinical features of
ectrodacytyly, is a mosaic for the same duplication. Therefore, we demonstrate
that somatic/gonadal mosaicism is a mechanism that gives rise to SHFM. We also
suggest that ocular abnormalities may be part of the clinical description of
SHFM3.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.33942 
PMID: 21485001  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1314. Anal Chem. 2011 May 1;83(9):3533-40. doi: 10.1021/ac200247e. Epub 2011 Apr 8.

Digital isothermal quantification of nucleic acids via simultaneous chemical
initiation of recombinase polymerase amplification reactions on SlipChip.

Shen F(1), Davydova EK, Du W, Kreutz JE, Piepenburg O, Ismagilov RF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Institute for Biophysical Dynamics, The University of
Chicago, Illinois 60637, United States.

In this paper, digital quantitative detection of nucleic acids was achieved at
the single-molecule level by chemical initiation of over one thousand
sequence-specific, nanoliter isothermal amplification reactions in parallel.
Digital polymerase chain reaction (digital PCR), a method used for quantification
of nucleic acids, counts the presence or absence of amplification of individual
molecules. However, it still requires temperature cycling, which is undesirable
under resource-limited conditions. This makes isothermal methods for nucleic acid
amplification, such as recombinase polymerase amplification (RPA), more
attractive. A microfluidic digital RPA SlipChip is described here for
simultaneous initiation of over one thousand nL-scale RPA reactions by adding a
chemical initiator to each reaction compartment with a simple slipping step after
instrument-free pipet loading. Two designs of the SlipChip, two-step slipping and
one-step slipping, were validated using digital RPA. By using the digital RPA
SlipChip, false-positive results from preinitiation of the RPA amplification
reaction before incubation were eliminated. End point fluorescence readout was
used for "yes or no" digital quantification. The performance of digital RPA in a 
SlipChip was validated by amplifying and counting single molecules of the target 
nucleic acid, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) genomic DNA. The
digital RPA on SlipChip was also tolerant to fluctuations of the incubation
temperature (37-42 °C), and its performance was comparable to digital PCR on the 
same SlipChip design. The digital RPA SlipChip provides a simple method to
quantify nucleic acids without requiring thermal cycling or kinetic measurements,
with potential applications in diagnostics and environmental monitoring under
resource-limited settings. The ability to initiate thousands of chemical
reactions in parallel on the nanoliter scale using solvent-resistant glass
devices is likely to be useful for a broader range of applications.

DOI: 10.1021/ac200247e 
PMCID: PMC3101872
PMID: 21476587  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1315. Curr Protoc Mol Biol. 2011 Apr;Chapter 25:Unit25B.10. doi:
10.1002/0471142727.mb25b10s94.

Digital multiplexed gene expression analysis using the NanoString nCounter
system.

Kulkarni MM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

This unit presents the protocol for the NanoString nCounter Gene Expression
Assay, a robust and highly reproducible method for detecting the expression of up
to 800 genes in a single reaction with high sensitivity and linearity across a
broad range of expression levels. The methodology serves to bridge the gap
between genome-wide (microarrays) and targeted (real-time quantitative PCR)
expression profiling. The nCounter assay is based on direct digital detection of 
mRNA molecules of interest using target-specific, color-coded probe pairs. It
does not require the conversion of mRNA to cDNA by reverse transcription or the
amplification of the resulting cDNA by PCR. Each target gene of interest is
detected using a pair of reporter and capture probes carrying 35- to 50-base
target-specific sequences. In addition, each reporter probe carries a unique
color code at the 5' end that enables the molecular barcoding of the genes of
interest, while the capture probes all carry a biotin label at the 3' end that
provides a molecular handle for attachment of target genes to facilitate
downstream digital detection. After solution-phase hybridization between target
mRNA and reporter-capture probe pairs, excess probes are removed and the
probe/target complexes are aligned and immobilized in the nCounter cartridge,
which is then placed in a digital analyzer for image acquisition and data
processing. Hundreds of thousands of color codes designating mRNA targets of
interest are directly imaged on the surface of the cartridge. The expression
level of a gene is measured by counting the number of times the color-coded
barcode for that gene is detected, and the barcode counts are then tabulated.

DOI: 10.1002/0471142727.mb25b10s94 
PMID: 21472696  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1316. Am J Vet Res. 2011 Apr;72(4):550-5. doi: 10.2460/ajvr.72.4.550.

Molecular, histologic, and trace mineral characterization of metacarpophalangeal 
and metatarsophalangeal joint hyperextension in juvenile llamas.

Semevolos SA(1), Reed SK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, Oregon State 
University, Corvallis, OR 97331, USA. stacy.semevolos@oregonstate.edu

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate molecular and histologic characteristics of the
superficial digital flexor tendon (SDFT), deep digital flexor tendon (DDFT), and 
suspensory ligament (SL) and assess trace-mineral concentrations in serum, liver,
and hair of juvenile llamas with metacarpophalangeal and metatarsophalangeal
joint hyperextension.
ANIMALS: 12 juvenile llamas (6 with bilateral hyperextension of
metacarpophalangeal joints, metatarsophalangeal joints, or both and 6 clinically 
normal control llamas).
PROCEDURES: Radiography and ultrasonography of metacarpophalangeal and
metatarsophalangeal regions were performed. Llamas were euthanized, and SDFT,
DDFT, and SL samples were collected for histologic evaluation of collagen and
elastin content and orientation, proteoglycan content, and collagen type III
immunohistochemistry. Total RNA was isolated from SL tissue, and gene expression 
of collagen types I and III, lysyl oxidase, and matrix metalloproteinase-13 was
evaluated via real-time quantitative reverse transcriptase PCR assay. Liver,
serum, and hair samples were evaluated for trace mineral content.
RESULTS: Collagen type III gene expression and proteoglycan content were
significantly increased in SL samples of affected juvenile llamas, compared with 
those of control llamas. No difference was detected in collagen and elastin
content and orientation or in gene expression of collagen type I, lysyl oxidase, 
or matrix metalloproteinase-13 between groups. Affected llamas had significantly 
increased serum molybdenum and decreased liver cobalt concentrations, compared
with values for control llamas.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Increased collagen type III gene expression
and proteoglycan content in SL samples of affected juvenile llamas provided
evidence of ongoing SL matrix repair. Trace mineral differences may have been
attributable to dietary imbalances in affected llamas.

DOI: 10.2460/ajvr.72.4.550 
PMID: 21453157  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1317. Anal Chem. 2011 Sep 1;83(17):6474-84. doi: 10.1021/ac103230c. Epub 2011 Aug 1.

Evaluation of digital PCR for absolute DNA quantification.

Sanders R(1), Huggett JF, Bushell CA, Cowen S, Scott DJ, Foy CA.

Author information: 
(1)LGC, Queens Road, Teddington, Middlesex TW11 0LY.

The emerging technique of microfluidic digital PCR (dPCR) offers a unique
approach to real-time quantitative PCR for measuring nucleic acids that may be
particularly suited for low-level detection. In this study, we evaluated the
quantitative capabilities of dPCR when measuring small amounts (<200 copies) of
DNA and investigated parameters influencing technical performance. We used
various DNA templates, matrixes, and assays to evaluate the precision,
sensitivity and reproducibility of dPCR, and demonstrate that this technique can 
be highly reproducible when performed at different times and when different
primer sets are targeting the same molecule. dPCR exhibited good analytical
sensitivity and was reproducible outside the range recommended by the instrument 
manufacturer; detecting 16 estimated targets with high precision. The inclusion
of carrier had no effect on this estimated quantity, but did improve measurement 
precision. We report disagreement when using dPCR to measure different template
types and when comparing the estimated quantities by dPCR and UV
spectrophotometry. Finally, we also demonstrate that preamplification can impose 
a significant measurement bias. These findings provide an independent assessment 
of low copy molecular measurement using dPCR and underline important factors for 
consideration in dPCR experimental design.

DOI: 10.1021/ac103230c 
PMID: 21446772  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1318. Methods Mol Biol. 2011;733:37-49. doi: 10.1007/978-1-61779-089-8_3.

RNA sequencing and quantitation using the Helicos Genetic Analysis System.

Raz T(1), Causey M, Jones DR, Kieu A, Letovsky S, Lipson D, Thayer E, Thompson
JF, Milos PM.

Author information: 
(1)Helicos BioSciences Corporation, Cambridge, MA, USA. traz@helicosbio.com

The recent transition in gene expression analysis technology to ultra
high-throughput cDNA sequencing provides a means for higher quantitation
sensitivity across a wider dynamic range than previously possible. Sensitivity of
detection is mostly a function of the sheer number of sequence reads generated.
Typically, RNA is converted to cDNA using random hexamers and the cDNA is
subsequently sequenced (RNA-Seq). With this approach, higher read numbers are
generated for long transcripts as compared to short ones. This length bias
necessitates the generation of very high read numbers to achieve sensitive
quantitation of short, low-expressed genes. To eliminate this length bias, we
have developed an ultra high-throughput sequencing approach where only a single
read is generated for each transcript molecule (single-molecule sequencing
Digital Gene Expression (smsDGE)). So, for example, equivalent quantitation
accuracy of the yeast transcriptome can be achieved by smsDGE using only 25% of
the reads that would be required using RNA-Seq. For sample preparation, RNA is
first reverse-transcribed into single-stranded cDNA using oligo-dT as a primer. A
poly-A tail is then added to the 3' ends of cDNA to facilitate the hybridization 
of the sample to the Helicos(®) single-molecule sequencing Flow-Cell to which a
poly dT oligo serves as the substrate for subsequent sequencing by synthesis. No 
PCR, sample-size selection, or ligation steps are required, thus avoiding
possible biases that may be introduced by such manipulations. Each tailed cDNA
sample is injected into one of 50 flow-cell channels and sequenced on the
Helicos(®) Genetic Analysis System. Thus, 50 samples are sequenced simultaneously
generating 10-20 million sequence reads on average for each sample channel. The
sequence reads can then be aligned to the reference of choice such as the
transcriptome, for quantitation of known transcripts, or the genome for novel
transcript discovery. This chapter provides a summary of the methods required for
smsDGE.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-61779-089-8_3 
PMID: 21431761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1319. Kekkaku. 2011 Feb;86(2):61-8.

[Genetic research about Mycobacterium avium complex].

[Article in Japanese]

Ogawa K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Research, National Hospital Organization, Higashinagoya
National Hospital, 5-101, Umemorizaka, Meito-ku, Nagoyashi, Aichi 465-8620,
Japan. ogawak@toumei.hosp.go.jp

A variable-number tandem-repeat (VNTR) typing method using the Mycobacterium
avium tandem repeat (MATR) loci (MATR-VNTR) is employed in Japan for
epidemiological studies using clinical isolates of M. avium. In this study, the
usefulness of this MATR-VNTR typing method was compared with that of the
IS1245-restriction fragment length polymorphism (IS1245-RFLP) typing method and a
mycobacterial interspersed repetitive-unit (MIRU)-VNTR typing method reported
previously (Boschiroli, C. Hubbans, P. Overduin, K. Stevenson, M. C. Gutierrez,
P. Supply, and F. Biet, Clin Microbiol.) Seventy clinical isolates identified as 
M. avium from human immunodeficiency virus-negative patients with MAC infections 
were used. MATR-VNTR typing using 15 loci distinguished 56 patterns of different 
allele profiles, yielding a Hunter-Gaston discriminatory index (HGDI) of 0.990.
However, IS1245-RFLP and MIRU-VNTR typing yielded HGDIs of 0.960 and 0.949,
respectively, indicating that MATR-VNTR has an excellent discriminatory power
compared with MIRU-VNTR and IS1245-RFLP typing. Moreover, concomitant use of the 
MATR-VNTR method and IS1245-RFLP typing increased the HGDI to 0.999. MATR-VNTR
typing is inexpensive and easy to perform and could thus be useful in
establishing a digital multifacility database that will greatly contribute to the
clarification of the transmission route and pathophysiology of M. avium
infections. Mycobacterium avium (n=81) from patients with pulmonary infections
who were HIV-negative and isolates (n=33) from HIV-positive patients were
subjected to genetic analysis by PCR detection of three M.avium-specific
insertion sequences (IS901, IS1245 and IS1311) and nucleotide sequencing of the
heat-shock protein 65 (hsp65) gene. All clinical isolates were identified as 'M. 
avium subspecies hominissuis' by sequence analysis of hsp65. Compared with
clinical isolates of M. avium reported elsewhere, IS1245 was found less
frequently in Japanese isolates (96/114 isolates, 84%) and IS901 was detected
more frequently (76/114 isolates, 67%). One isolate was found to lack IS1311,
which has not been reported previously for 'M. avium subsp. hominissuis.'
Nucleotide sequence analysis of the PCR products for IS901 revealed that all
clinical isolates had the same new insertion sequence, designated ISMav6, which
had 60 point mutation compared with the nucleotide sequence of the original
IS901. These results suggest that 'M. avium subsp. hominissuis' with ISMav6 is
prevalent in Japan. ISMav6 may have implications for the virulence of M. avium
and contribute to an increase of M. avium infections in this country.
Clarithromycin (CAM) is the key drug in the various treatment regimens of
Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) diseases and the only drug for which drug
susceptibility has been shown to correlate with a clinical response in these
diseases. A point mutation at position 2058 or 2059 of the 23S rRNA gene has been
reported to occur in high-level CAM-resistant isolates. This study examined a
correlation between the results from a drug susceptibility test and the mutation 
of genes involved in drug resistance in MAC. Furthermore, we adapted a rapid
detection method using amplification refractory mutation system (ARMS)-PCR to
identify a mutation in 23S rRNA gene in MAC isolates. Using MICs of CAM, drug
susceptibility was tested for 253 clinically-isolated MAC strains. Of these, 28
CAM-sensitive strains and 26 CAM-resistant strains were analysed by sequence
analysis and ARMS-PCR. The drug susceptibility test showed that a bimodal
distribution was associated with 227 CAM-sensitive strains and 26 CAM-resistant
strains. Sequence analysis revealed that all 28 CAM-sensitive strains tested were
wild type, whereas 24 of the 26 CAM-resistant strains were mutant type. The
sensitivity of the sequence and ARMS-PCR analyses were 92.3% and 84.6%,
respectively, and specificity of both was 100%. We found a correlation between
drug susceptibility testing and the mutation of drug-resistant genes in this
study. ARMS-PCR allowed rapid determination of CAM resistance, even when samples 
consisted of the mixed type of CAM-sensitive and CAM-resistant strains. MAC is
divided into Mycobacterium avium, and the less-epidemiologically studied
Mycobacterium intracellulare. Genetic typing for M. intracellulare using variable
number of tandem repeats (VNTR) has not yet been developed. The aim of this study
was to identify VNTR loci in the genome of M. intracellulare and apply them as an
epidemiological tool to clinical isolates. Here, we identified 25 VNTR loci on
the M. intracellulare genome, which 16 showed variations among clinical isolates 
in the number of tandem repeat motifs. Among the 74 M. intracellulare isolates,
49 genotypes were distinguished using the 16 VNTR loci, resulting in a
Hunter-Gaston discriminatory index of 0.988. Moreover, all 16 VNTR loci were
stable in different sets of isolates recovered within time intervals ranging from
2 to 1551 days from 14 separate patients. These results indicate that for use as 
epidemiological markers of M. intracellulare, the loci in this VNTR assay highly 
discriminating and stable over time.


PMID: 21404652  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1320. Clin Cancer Res. 2011 Mar 1;17(5):1090-8. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-10-2410.
Epub 2011 Mar 1.

Engrailed-2 (EN2): a tumor specific urinary biomarker for the early diagnosis of 
prostate cancer.

Morgan R(1), Boxall A, Bhatt A, Bailey M, Hindley R, Langley S, Whitaker HC, Neal
DE, Ismail M, Whitaker H, Annels N, Michael A, Pandha H.

Author information: 
(1)Postgraduate Medical School, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences,
University of Surrey, Guildford, United Kingdom. r.morgan@surrey.ac.uk

Comment in
    Biomark Med. 2011 Aug;5(4):423-5.

PURPOSE: Prostate cancer (PC) is the second most common cause of cancer related
death in men. A number of key limitations with prostate specific antigen (PSA),
currently the standard detection test, has justified evaluation of new
biomarkers. We have assessed the diagnostic potential of Engrailed-2 (EN2)
protein, a homeodomain-containing transcription factor expressed in PC cell lines
and secreted into the urine by PC in men.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: EN2 expression in PC cell lines and prostate cancer tissue
was determined by semi-quantative RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry. First pass
urine [without prior digital rectal examination (DRE)] was collected from men
presenting with urinary symptoms (referred to exclude/confirm the presence of
prostate cancer) and from controls. EN2 protein was measured by ELISA in urine
from men with PC (n = 82) and controls (n = 102).
RESULTS: EN2 was expressed and secreted by PC cell lines and PC tissue but not by
normal prostate tissue or stroma. The presence of EN2 in urine was highly
predictive of PC, with a sensitivity of 66% and a specificity of 88.2%, without
requirement for DRE. There was no correlation with PSA levels. These results were
confirmed independently by a second academic center.
CONCLUSIONS: Urinary EN2 is a highly specific and sensitive candidate biomarker
of prostate cancer. A larger multicenter study to further evaluate the diagnostic
potential of EN2 is justified.

©2011 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-10-2410 
PMID: 21364037  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1321. Leuk Lymphoma. 2011 May;52(5):896-904. doi: 10.3109/10428194.2011.555569. Epub
2011 Feb 21.

Sensitive quantitation of minimal residual disease in chronic myeloid leukemia
using nanofluidic digital polymerase chain reaction assay.

Goh HG(1), Lin M, Fukushima T, Saglio G, Kim D, Choi SY, Kim SH, Lee J, Lee YS,
Oh SM, Kim DW.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Genetics Research Institute, The Catholic University of Korea,
Seoul, Korea.

Comment in
    Leuk Lymphoma. 2011 Jul;52(7):1161-3.

Undetectable BCR-ABL transcripts in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) 
should not be regarded as indicative of a cure, due to the sensitivity limit of
current real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RQ-PCR) technology. To 
demonstrate the feasibility of more sensitive approaches, 62 samples from 43
patients with CML were screened by conventional RQ-PCR, replicate RQ-PCR
(rRQ-PCR), and/or nanofluidic digital PCR (dPCR). First, we confirmed the
correlation of dPCR to conventional RQ-PCR using 30 patient samples with various 
minimal residual disease (MRD) levels. When the sensitivity limits were
determined using cell line and patient sample dilutions, rRQ-PCR and dPCR with
pre-amplification showed 2-3 log improvement compared to conventional RQ-PCR, and
24 of 32 PCR negative samples as assayed by conventional RQ-PCR showed detectable
BCR-ABL in rRQ-PCR and/or dPCR. More important, using dPCR in conjunction with a 
pre-amplification step, a continuous decline in MRD level could be precisely
monitored even after it became undetectable by conventional RQ-PCR. In this
study, both rRQ-PCR and dPCR demonstrated successful detection of BCR-ABL
transcripts not detectable in conventional RQ-PCR, and these data show the
potential feasibility of highly sensitive PCR approaches for molecular monitoring
and clinical relevance in future CML management by allowing further
characterization of patients who achieve PCR negativity in a conventional RQ-PCR 
assay.

DOI: 10.3109/10428194.2011.555569 
PMID: 21338281  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1322. Clin Chim Acta. 2011 May 12;412(11-12):1012-7. doi: 10.1016/j.cca.2011.02.007.
Epub 2011 Feb 12.

A novel frame-shift mutation of GLI3 causes non-syndromic and complex digital
anomalies in a Chinese family.

Cheng F(1), Ke X, Lv M, Zhang F, Li C, Zhang X, Zhang Y, Zhao X, Wang X, Liu B,
Han J, Li Y, Zeng C, Li S.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory in Cancer Genomics and Individualized Medicine, Beijing Institute
of Genomics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.

Erratum in
    Clin Chim Acta. 2011 Sep 18;412(19-20):1898.

A three-generation Han Chinese family was found with complex digital anomalies
including various types of polydactyly and syndactyly of fingers and toes. Some
extra digits are composed only of soft tissues while others are complete fingers 
or toes, making this complex case different from previously reported pedigrees.
The digital disease shows an autosomal dominant inheritance model. To locate the 
causative gene, whole-genome SNP analysis was performed using Illumina 370 K
CNV-Quad chips followed by linkage analysis with a self-developed algorithm
Haplo2Ped (http://bighapmap.big.ac.cn/software.html). Three candidate regions
with the highest signals (LOD scores 2.1070) were identified. In one region from 
33,904,914 bp to 45,529,271 bp in chromosome 7, GLI3 was selected for further
analysis. PCR sequencing and subsequent clone sequencing revealed a single
nucleotide deletion (c.2884delG) in exon 14. This frame shift mutation generated 
a truncated protein with 40 non-endogenous amino acids in its C-terminal
(p.Asp962MetfsX41). GLI3 was previously reported to associate with Greig
Cephalopolysyndactyly Syndrome, Pallister-Hall Syndrome, and a few cases of
preaxial and postaxial polydactylies. We report for the first time a novel
mutation of GLI3 causing various digital abnormalities, including multi symptoms 
as both polydactyly and syndactyly among affected members but no other body
maldevelopments (non-syndromic).

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cca.2011.02.007 
PMID: 21320477  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1323. Plant Cell Physiol. 2011 Feb;52(2):317-32. doi: 10.1093/pcp/pcq188.

Analysis of leaf and root transcriptomes of soil-grown Avena barbata plants.

Swarbreck SM(1), Lindquist EA, Ackerly DD, Andersen GL.

Author information: 
(1)Earth Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, One Cyclotron 
Road, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA. stephanie.swarbreck@gmail.com

Slender wild oat (Avena barbata) is an annual grass dominant in many grassland
ecosystems in Mediterranean climate. This species has been the subject of
ecological studies aimed at understanding the effect of global climate change on 
grassland ecosystems and the genetic basis for adaptation under varying
environmental conditions. We present the sequencing and analysis of cDNA
libraries constructed from leaf and root samples collected from A. barbata grown 
on natural soil and under varying rainfall patterns. More than 1 million
expressed sequence tags (ESTs) were generated using both GS 454-FLX
pyrosequencing and Sanger sequencing, and these tags were assembled into
consensus sequences. We identified numerous candidate polymorphic markers in the 
data set, providing possibilities for linking the genomic and the existing
genetic information for A. barbata. Using the digital Northern method, we showed 
that genes involved in photosynthesis were down-regulated under high rainfall
while stress-related genes were up-regulated. We also identified a number of
genes unique to the root library with unknown function. Real-time reverse
transcription-PCR was used to confirm the root specificity of some of these
transcripts such as two genes encoding O-methyl transferase. Also we showed
differential expression of five root-specific genes under three water levels and 
two developmental stages. Through a combination of Sanger and 454-based
sequencing technologies, we were able to generate a large set of transcribed
sequences for A. barbata. This data set provides a platform for further studies
of this important wild grass species.

DOI: 10.1093/pcp/pcq188 
PMID: 21310848  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1324. BMC Genomics. 2011 Feb 1;12:91. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-12-91.

General lack of global dosage compensation in ZZ/ZW systems? Broadening the
perspective with RNA-seq.

Wolf JB(1), Bryk J.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology, Department of Evolutionary
Genetics, August-Thienemannstr, 2, 24306 Plön, Germany. jochen.wolf@ebc.uu.se

BACKGROUND: Species with heteromorphic sex chromosomes face the challenge of
large-scale imbalance in gene dose. Microarray-based studies in several
independent male heterogametic XX/XY systems suggest that dosage compensation
mechanisms are in place to mitigate the detrimental effects of gene dose
differences. However, recent genomic research on female heterogametic ZZ/ZW
systems has generated surprising results. In two bird species and one
lepidopteran no evidence for a global dosage compensating mechanism has been
found. The recent advent of massively parallel RNA sequencing now opens up the
possibility to gauge the generality of this observation with a broader
phylogenetic sampling. It further allows assessing the validity of
microarray-based inference on dosage compensation with a novel technology.
RESULTS: We here exemplify this approach using massively parallel sequencing on
barcoded individuals of a bird species, the European crow (Corvus corone), where 
previously no genetic resources were available. Testing for Z-linkage with
quantitative PCR (qPCR,) we first establish that orthology with distantly related
species (chicken, zebra finch) can be used as a good predictor for chromosomal
affiliation of a gene. We then use a digital measure of gene expression (RNA-seq)
on brain transcriptome and confirm a global lack of dosage compensation on the Z 
chromosome. RNA-seq estimates of male-to-female (m:f) expression difference on
the Z compare well to previous microarray-based estimates in birds and
lepidopterans. The data further lends support that an up-regulation of female
Z-linked genes conveys partial compensation and suggest a relationship between
sex-bias and absolute expression level of a gene. Correlation of sex-biased gene 
expression on the Z chromosome across all three bird species further suggests
that the degree of compensation has been partly conserved across 100 million
years of avian evolution.
CONCLUSIONS: This work demonstrates that the study of dosage compensation has
become amenable to species where previously no genetic resources were available. 
Massively parallele transcriptome sequencing allows re-assessing the degree of
dosage compensation with a novel tool in well-studies species and, in addition,
gain valuable insights into the generality of mechanisms across independent
taxonomic group for both the XX/XY and ZZ/ZW system.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-12-91 
PMCID: PMC3040151
PMID: 21284834  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1325. Blood. 2011 Mar 31;117(13):3684-91. doi: 10.1182/blood-2010-10-310789. Epub 2011 
Jan 24.

Noninvasive prenatal diagnosis of hemophilia by microfluidics digital PCR
analysis of maternal plasma DNA.

Tsui NB(1), Kadir RA, Chan KC, Chi C, Mellars G, Tuddenham EG, Leung TY, Lau TK, 
Chiu RW, Lo YM.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Research into Circulating Fetal Nucleic Acids, Li Ka Shing
Institute of Health Sciences, Hong Kong, China.

Erratum in
    Blood. 2012 May 10;119(19):4577.

Hemophilia is a bleeding disorder with X-linked inheritance. Current prenatal
diagnostic methods for hemophilia are invasive and pose a risk to the fetus.
Cell-free fetal DNA analysis in maternal plasma provides a noninvasive mean of
assessing fetal sex in such pregnancies. However, the disease status of male
fetuses remains unknown if mutation-specific confirmatory analysis is not
performed. Here we have developed a noninvasive test to diagnose whether the
fetus has inherited a causative mutation for hemophilia from its mother. The
strategy is based on a relative mutation dosage approach, which we have
previously established for determining the mutational status of fetuses for
autosomal disease mutations. In this study, the relative mutation dosage method
is used to deduce whether a fetus has inherited a hemophilia mutation on
chromosome X by detecting whether the concentration of the mutant or wild-type
allele is overrepresented in the plasma of heterozygous women carrying male
fetuses. We correctly detected fetal genotypes for hemophilia mutations in all of
the 12 studied maternal plasma samples obtained from at-risk pregnancies from as 
early as the 11th week of gestation. This development would make the decision to 
undertake prenatal testing less traumatic and safer for at-risk families.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2010-10-310789 
PMID: 21263151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1326. Brain Tumor Pathol. 2011 Feb;28(1):25-31. doi: 10.1007/s10014-010-0004-2. Epub
2011 Jan 20.

Quantitative digital assessment of MGMT immunohistochemical expression in
glioblastoma tissue.

Araki Y(1), Mizoguchi M, Yoshimoto K, Shono T, Amano T, Nakamizo A, Suzuki SO,
Iwaki T, Sasaki T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kyushu
University, 3-1-1 Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka 812-8582, Japan.
kaneyash@ns.med.kyushu-u.ac.jp

Recent reports have suggested an important clinical role for hypermethylation of 
the O(6)-methylguanine-DNA-methyltransferase (MGMT) promoter in patients with
glioblastomas. Whether MGMT protein expression is correlated with promoter
hypermethylation and patient outcomes, however, has not been elucidated. Here we 
describe a quantitative digital method for assessment of MGMT-specific
immunostaining, and analyze the relationship between expression levels and
methylation status of the MGMT promoter. We investigated 46 tumors from patients 
who received a diagnosis of glioblastoma or gliosarcoma. Immunohistochemistry
with anti-MGMT antibody and methylation-specific PCR using bisulfite-modified
tumor DNA were performed. The digital assessment method used image-analysis
software to determine a digital MGMT staining index, and the results were
compared with those obtained via conventional visual assessments. The digital
staining index clearly correlated with the methylation status of MGMT promoter.
In addition, the index correlated with our observational results when nuclear and
cytoplasmic staining were assessed in three different fields. Our digital
assessment method enabled us to assess uncertain immunopositive samples
objectively and quantitatively, which is an important consideration when
examining heterogeneous cellular staining. We expect that this method will be
useful for assessment of heterogeneous staining with any antibodies.

DOI: 10.1007/s10014-010-0004-2 
PMID: 21249460  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1327. PLoS One. 2010 Dec 20;5(12):e15244. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0015244.

Epigenetic-genetic chromosome dosage approach for fetal trisomy 21 detection
using an autosomal genetic reference marker.

Tong YK(1), Chiu RW, Akolekar R, Leung TY, Lau TK, Nicolaides KH, Lo YM.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Research into Circulating Fetal Nucleic Acids, Li Ka Shing
Institute of Health Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Prince of
Wales Hospital, Shatin, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, China.

BACKGROUND: The putative promoter of the holocarboxylase synthetase (HLCS) gene
on chromosome 21 is hypermethylated in placental tissues and could be detected as
a fetal-specific DNA marker in maternal plasma. Detection of fetal trisomy 21
(T21) has been demonstrated by an epigenetic-genetic chromosome dosage approach
where the amount of hypermethylated HLCS in maternal plasma is normalized using a
fetal genetic marker on the Y chromosome as a chromosome dosage reference marker.
We explore if this method can be applied on both male and female fetuses with the
use of a paternally-inherited fetal single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) allele
on a reference chromosome for chromosome dosage normalization.
METHODOLOGY: We quantified hypermethylated HLCS molecules using
methylation-sensitive restriction endonuclease digestion followed by real-time or
digital PCR analyses. For chromosome dosage analysis, we compared the amount of
digestion-resistant HLCS to that of a SNP allele (rs6636, a C/G SNP) that the
fetus has inherited from the father but absent in the pregnant mother.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Using a fetal-specific SNP allele on a reference chromosome, 
we analyzed 20 euploid and nine T21 placental tissue samples. All samples with
the fetal-specific C allele were correctly classified. One sample from each of
the euploid and T21 groups were misclassified when the fetal-specific G allele
was used as the reference marker. We then analyzed 33 euploid and 14 T21 maternal
plasma samples. All but one sample from each of the euploid and T21 groups were
correctly classified using the fetal-specific C allele, while correct
classification was achieved for all samples using the fetal-specific G allele as 
the reference marker.
CONCLUSIONS: As a proof-of-concept study, we have demonstrated that the
epigenetic-genetic chromosome dosage approach can be applied to the prenatal
diagnosis of trisomy 21 for both male and female fetuses.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0015244 
PMCID: PMC3004793
PMID: 21249119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1328. Clin Cancer Res. 2011 May 1;17(9):2908-18. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-10-2552.
Epub 2011 Jan 10.

Digital transcript profile analysis with aRNA-LongSAGE validates FERMT1 as a
potential novel prognostic marker for colon cancer.

Fan J(1), Yan D, Teng M, Tang H, Zhou C, Wang X, Li D, Qiu G, Peng Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Surgery, Shanghai First People's Hospital, Shanghai
Jiaotong University, Shanghai, China.

PURPOSE: To use gene transcript profiling to identify cancer-associated gene
expression.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Methods included (i) marker discovery using laser capture
microdissection (LCM)-assisted specimen preparation and antisense RNA-long serial
analysis of gene expression (aRNA-LongSAGE) on matched colon cancer and
uninvolved colon tissue specimens (n = 5). Candidate tumor-associated genes were 
selected by combining the LongSAGE libraries reported herein with our previous
colon cancer LCM-microarray transcript profiling data; (ii) marker selection and 
validation by quantitative real-time PCR (n = 15) and immunohistochemistry (n =
31); and (iii) independent validation on multiple tissue microarray (n = 203).
RESULTS: Among 30 upregulated and 73 downregulated genes, upregulation of
fermitin family member 1 (FERMT1), adenosylhomocysteinase (AHCY), secernin 1
(SCRN1), and SAC3 domain-containing protein 1 (SAC3D1) expression and
downregulation of IgJ and MALL expression in colon cancer were confirmed by
quantitative PCR. FERMT1 and AHCY protein expression was also upregulated in
colon cancer compared with uninvolved colon mucosa, and FERMT1 expression showed 
upregulation in colon adenoma. Patients with moderate/strong tumor FERMT1 protein
expression (n = 122) showed significantly poorer overall survival (OS; P = 0.011)
and disease-free survival (DFS; P = 0.005) than patients with negative/weak tumor
FERMT1 protein expression (n = 81). Multivariate Cox regression analysis showed
that FERMT1 protein expression was also an independent prognostic factor for OS
(P = 0.018) and DFS (P = 0.009). In addition, upregulated FERMT1 protein
expression appeared to have some specificity among alimentary tract tumors.
CONCLUSIONS: FERMT1 is a novel prognostic factor for colon carcinoma.

©2011 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-10-2552 
PMID: 21220475  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1329. J Clin Microbiol. 2011 Mar;49(3):908-17. doi: 10.1128/JCM.01578-10. Epub 2010 Dec
29.

Simultaneous identification of mycobacterial isolates to the species level and
determination of tuberculosis drug resistance by PCR followed by electrospray
ionization mass spectrometry.

Massire C(1), Ivy CA, Lovari R, Kurepina N, Li H, Blyn LB, Hofstadler SA,
Khechinashvili G, Stratton CW, Sampath R, Tang YW, Ecker DJ, Kreiswirth BN.

Author information: 
(1)Ibis Biosciences, Inc., 2251 Faraday Ave., Carlsbad, CA 92008, USA.
cmassire@ibisbio.com

Mycobacterium tuberculosis that is resistant to both isoniazid (INH) and rifampin
(RIF) is spreading. It has become a public health problem in part because the
standard culture methods used to determine the appropriate treatment regimen for 
patients often take months following the presumptive diagnosis of tuberculosis.
Furthermore, the misidentification of nontuberculosis mycobacteria (NTM) in
patients presumably suffering from tuberculosis results in additional human and
health care costs. The mechanisms of resistance for several drugs used to treat
Mycobacterium tuberculosis are well understood and therefore should be amenable
to determination by rapid molecular methods. We describe here the use of PCR
followed by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (PCR/ESI-MS) in an assay
that simultaneously determines INH and RIF resistance in Mycobacterium
tuberculosis and identifies and determines the species of NTMs. The assay panel
included 16 primer pairs in eight multiplexed reactions and was validated using a
collection of 1,340 DNA samples from cultured specimens collected in the New York
City area, the Republic of Georgia, and South Africa. Compared with phenotypic
data, the PCR/ESI-MS assay had 89.3% sensitivity and 95.8% specificity in the
determination of INH resistance and 96.3% sensitivity and 98.6% specificity in
the determination of RIF resistance. Based on a set of 264 previously
characterized liquid culture specimens, the PCR/ESI-MS method had 97.0%
sensitivity and 99.9% specificity for determination of NTM identity. The assay
also provides information on ethambutol, fluoroquinolone, and diarylquinoline
resistance and lineage-specific polymorphisms, to yield highly discriminative
digital signatures potentially suitable for epidemiology tracking.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.01578-10 
PMCID: PMC3067746
PMID: 21191060  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1330. PLoS One. 2010 Dec 6;5(12):e14233. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0014233.

Transcriptome analysis of the brown planthopper Nilaparvata lugens.

Xue J(1), Bao YY, Li BL, Cheng YB, Peng ZY, Liu H, Xu HJ, Zhu ZR, Lou YG, Cheng
JA, Zhang CX.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology of Crop Pathogens and Insects of Ministry 
of Agriculture, Institute of Insect Science, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou,
China.

BACKGROUND: The brown planthopper (BPH) Nilaparvata lugens (Stål) is one of the
most serious insect pests of rice in Asia. However, little is known about the
mechanisms responsible for the development, wing dimorphism and sex difference in
this species. Genomic information for BPH is currently unavailable, and,
therefore, transcriptome and expression profiling data for this species are
needed as an important resource to better understand the biological mechanisms of
BPH.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: In this study, we performed de novo transcriptome
assembly and gene expression analysis using short-read sequencing technology
(Illumina) combined with a tag-based digital gene expression (DGE) system. The
transcriptome analysis assembles the gene information for different developmental
stages, sexes and wing forms of BPH. In addition, we constructed six DGE
libraries: eggs, second instar nymphs, fifth instar nymphs, brachypterous female 
adults, macropterous female adults and macropterous male adults. Illumina
sequencing revealed 85,526 unigenes, including 13,102 clusters and 72,424
singletons. Transcriptome sequences larger than 350 bp were subjected to Gene
Orthology (GO) and KEGG Orthology (KO) annotations. To analyze the DGE profiling,
we mainly compared the gene expression variations between eggs and second instar 
nymphs; second and fifth instar nymphs; fifth instar nymphs and three types of
adults; brachypterous and macropterous female adults as well as macropterous
female and male adults. Thousands of genes showed significantly different
expression levels based on the various comparisons. And we randomly selected some
genes to confirm their altered expression levels by quantitative real-time PCR
(qRT-PCR).
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: The obtained BPH transcriptome and DGE profiling data
provide comprehensive gene expression information at the transcriptional level
that could facilitate our understanding of the molecular mechanisms from various 
physiological aspects including development, wing dimorphism and sex difference
in BPH.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0014233 
PMCID: PMC2997790
PMID: 21151909  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1331. Mol Cells. 2011 Jan;31(1):55-64. doi: 10.1007/s10059-011-0001-2. Epub 2010 Nov
25.

Phylogenetic and expression analysis of RNA-binding proteins with triple RNA
recognition motifs in plants.

Peal L(1), Jambunathan N, Mahalingam R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Oklahoma State University,
Stillwater, OK, USA.

The superfamily of RNA binding proteins (RBPs) is vastly expanded in plants
compared to other eukaryotes. A subfamily of RBPs that contain three RNA
recognition motifs (RRMs) from the Arabidopsis (24), rice (19) and poplar (37)
genomes was analyzed in this study. Phylogenetic analysis with full-length
protein sequences of 80 RBPs identified nine clades. The largest clade,
comprising 23 members, showed high homology to human RBPs involved in oxidative
signaling. Digital northern analysis revealed that Arabidopsis RBPs are
transcriptionally responsive to biotic, abiotic and hormonal treatments. Northern
blot analysis of eight Arabidopsis RBPs belonging to the tobacco RBP45/47 family 
showed that these genes respond to ozone stress. AtRBP45b, which shows closest
homology to the yeast oxidative stress regulatory protein, CSX1, was expressed in
multiple tissues. Two novel splice variant forms of AtRBP45b were identified by
3'RACE analysis. Based on RT-PCR, splice variant AtRBP45b-SV1 was observed only
in response to mechanical wounding caused by pathogen or chemical infiltrations
and was not detectable in response to salt or temperature stress. Electrophoretic
mobility shift assay demonstrated that recombinant full-length and splice variant
forms of AtRBP45b bound synthetic RNA. Identifying in vivo RNA targets of
AtRBP45b will aid in determining the precise functional role of these proteins
during oxidative signaling.

DOI: 10.1007/s10059-011-0001-2 
PMCID: PMC3906871
PMID: 21120628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1332. Analyst. 2011 Feb 21;136(4):724-32. doi: 10.1039/c0an00484g. Epub 2010 Nov 25.

Effect of sustained elevated temperature prior to amplification on template copy 
number estimation using digital polymerase chain reaction.

Bhat S(1), McLaughlin JL, Emslie KR.

Author information: 
(1)National Measurement Institute, Lindfield, New South Wales, Australia.
Somanath.Bhat@measurement.gov.au

Digital polymerase chain reaction (dPCR) has the potential to enable accurate
quantification of target DNA copy number provided that all target DNA molecules
are successfully amplified. Following duplex dPCR analysis from a linear DNA
target sequence that contains single copies of two independent template
sequences, we have observed that amplification of both templates in a single
partition does not always occur. To investigate this finding, we heated the
target DNA solution to 95 °C for increasing time intervals and then immediately
chilled on ice prior to preparing the dPCR mix. We observed an exponential
decline in estimated copy number (R(2)≥ 0.98) of the two template sequences when 
amplified from either a linearized plasmid or a 388 base pair (bp) amplicon
containing the same two template sequences. The distribution of amplifiable
templates and the final concentration (copies per µL) were both affected by heat 
treatment of the samples at 95 °C from 0 s to 30 min. The proportion of target
sequences from which only one of the two templates was amplified in a single
partition (either 1507 or hmg only) increased over time, while the proportion of 
target sequences where both templates were amplified (1507 and hmg) in each
individual partition declined rapidly from 94% to 52% (plasmid) and 88% to 31%
(388 bp amplicon) suggesting an increase in number of targets from which both
templates no longer amplify. A 10 min incubation at 95 °C reduced the initial
amplifiable template concentration of the plasmid and the 388 bp amplicon by 59% 
and 91%, respectively. To determine if a similar decrease in amplifiable target
occurs during the default pre-activation step of typical PCR amplification
protocol, we used mastermixes with a 20 s or 10 min hot-start. The choice of
mastermix and consequent pre-activation time did not affect the estimated plasmid
concentration. Therefore, we conclude that prolonged exposure of this DNA
template to elevated temperatures could lead to significant bias in dPCR
measurements. However, care must be taken when designing PCR and non-PCR based
experiments by reducing exposure of the DNA template to sustained elevated
temperatures in order to improve accuracy in copy number estimation and
concentration determination.

DOI: 10.1039/c0an00484g 
PMID: 21107463  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1333. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2010 Sep;46(9):821-8.

[Expression of inflammatory cytokines in a mouse model of keratomycosis].

[Article in Chinese]

Yin HM(1), Zhong WX, Xie LX.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory Cultivation Base, Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of
Ophthalmology, Shandong Eye Institute, Qingdao 266071, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the expression, contribution and regulation of
predominant inflammatory cytokines in the inflammation process of in a mouse
model of keratomycosis.
METHODS: It was an experimental study. Two hundred forty inbred BALB/c mice were 
randomly divided into four groups (injury control group, F. solani infected
group, A. fumigatus infected group and C. albicans infected group) and
establishment fungal keratitis was performed. At 1, 3, 5, and 7 days after
infection, the photographs of their corneas were taken using the slit lamp and
the digital camera system. The presence of inflammatory cells and fungal hyphae
were observed by HE and PAS staining. Four inflammatory cytokines in infectious
corneas, including MIP-2, KC, IL-1β, and IL-6, were detected respectively for
expression of mRNA and protein levels, using RT-PCR and ELISA. One-way ANOVA was 
used to test the comparisons of the clinical scoring, RT-PCR, and ELISA, and LSD 
was used to test multiple comparisons.
RESULTS: The course and inflammatory reaction of corneal tissue in all infected
group increased at day 3 and 5 and gradually decreased after day 7 with time. The
RT-PCR results showed, the mRNA expression levels of MIP-2 and IL-1β were the
highest in A. fumigatus infected group, and the expression levels of KC was the
highest in C. albicans infected group. Additionally, the expression levels of
IL-6 were found to be the highest in F. solani infected group. The mRNA
expression levels of IL-1β and KC in each experimental group were higher than
those of IL-6 and MIP-2. The peak expression levels of MIP-2, KC, and IL-1β
occurred at day 5, day 1, and day 3 in F. solani infected group, A. fumigatus
infected group and C. albicans infected group, respectively. However, the peak
expression level of IL-6 occurred at day 1 and 7, day 1 and 7, and day 1 and 5 in
the F. solani, A. fumigatus, and C. albicans groups, respectively. The difference
of mRNA expression of each cytokine had statistically significant between each
groups (MIP-2: F = 1675.339, P < 0.01; KC: F = 730.267, P < 0.01; IL-1β: F =
297.106, P < 0.01; IL-6: F = 174.513, P < 0.01). The protein expression levels of
the four cytokines in the infected groups from high to low in turn were IL-1β,
MIP-2, KC and IL-6. The trend of protein expression of the four cytokines at each
time point was the same as the cytokine mRNA expression in different experimental
groups as well as within the same group. The difference of protein expression of 
each cytokine had statistically significant between each groups (MIP-2: F =
2871.736, P < 0.01; KC:F = 886.598, P < 0.01; IL-1β: F = 3595.488, P < 0.01;
IL-6: F = 89.225, P < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: The expression levels of MIP-2, KC and IL-1β are closely related to 
the performance of the disease severity and inflammatory reaction of FK. The
expression of MIP-2 and IL-1β may play important role in the pathogenesis of FK.


PMID: 21092562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1334. Duodecim. 2010;126(19):2321-8.

[From fingerprints to DNA tags].

[Article in Finnish]

Sajantila A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hjelt-instituutti, oikeuslääketieteen osasto PL 40, 00014 Helsingin yliopisto.

Decisions concerning individuals are made based on the DNA fingerprinting
technique, e.g. in the courts of law. Currently applied DNA markers and the
technique associated with their analysis have changed significantly from those of
the original DNA fingerprint. The digital nature of today's DNA tag determination
has enabled the application of powerful DNA registers in crime investigations.
Application of DNA tags has expanded from paternity, crime and cadaver
identification to the prediction of external features such as hair or eye color
in criminal investigation. In the early 1990's pioneering work on PCR-based DNA
identification was carried out in Finland.


PMID: 21086690  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1335. Nucleic Acids Res. 2011 Mar;39(4):e19. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkq1074. Epub 2010 Nov
11.

Digital MDA for enumeration of total nucleic acid contamination.

Blainey PC(1), Quake SR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, Stanford University and Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, 318 Campus Drive, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.

Multiple displacement amplification (MDA) is an isothermal, sequence-independent 
method for the amplification of high molecular weight DNA that is driven by φ29
DNA polymerase (DNAP). Here we report digital MDA (dMDA), an ultrasensitive
method for quantifying nucleic acid fragments of unknown sequence. We use the new
assay to show that our custom φ29 DNAP preparation is free of contamination at
the limit of detection of the dMDA assay (1 contaminating molecule per assay
microliter). Contamination in commercially available preparations is also
investigated. The results of the dMDA assay provide strong evidence that the
so-called 'template-independent' MDA background can be attributed to
high-molecular weight contaminants and is not primer-derived in the commercial
kits tested. dMDA is orders of magnitude more sensitive than PCR-based techniques
for detection of microbial genomic DNA fragments and opens up new possibilities
for the ultrasensitive quantification of DNA fragments in a wide variety of
application areas using MDA chemistry and off-the-shelf hardware developed for
digital PCR.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkq1074 
PMCID: PMC3045575
PMID: 21071419  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1336. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2011 Jan;77(1):138-47. doi: 10.1128/AEM.00993-10. Epub
2010 Nov 5.

Characterization of novel bovine gastrointestinal tract Treponema isolates and
comparison with bovine digital dermatitis treponemes.

Evans NJ(1), Brown JM, Murray RD, Getty B, Birtles RJ, Hart CA, Carter SD.

Author information: 
(1)School of Veterinary Science, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, United
Kingdom. evansnj@liverpool.ac.uk

This study aimed to isolate and characterize treponemes present in the bovine
gastrointestinal (GI) tract and compare them with bovine digital dermatitis (BDD)
treponemes. Seven spirochete isolates were obtained from the bovine GI tract,
which, on the basis of 16S rRNA gene comparisons, clustered within the genus
Treponema as four novel phylotypes. One phylotype was isolated from several
different GI tract regions, including the omasum, colon, rumen, and rectum. These
four phylotypes could be divided into two phylotype pairs that clustered closest 
with each other and then with different, previously reported rumen treponemes.
The treponemes displayed great genotypic and phenotypic diversity between
phylotypes and differed considerably from named treponeme species and those
recently reported by metagenomic studies of the bovine GI tract. Phylogenetic
inference, based on comparisons of 16S rRNA sequences from only bovine
treponemes, suggested a marked divergence between two important groups. The
dendrogram formed two major clusters, with one cluster containing GI tract
treponemes and the other containing BDD treponemes. This division among the
bovine treponemes is likely the result of adaptation to different niches. To
further differentiate the bovine GI and BDD strains, we designed a degenerate PCR
for a gene encoding a putative virulence factor, tlyC, which gave a positive
reaction only for treponemes from the BDD cluster.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.00993-10 
PMCID: PMC3019712
PMID: 21057019  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1337. BMC Genomics. 2010 Nov 6;11:619. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-11-619.

Digital gene expression tag profiling of bat digits provides robust candidates
contributing to wing formation.

Wang Z(1), Dong D, Ru B, Young RL, Han N, Guo T, Zhang S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Ecology and Evolution, iAIR, East China Normal
University, Shanghai 200062, PR China.

BACKGROUND: As the only truly flying mammals, bats use their unique wing -
consisting of four elongated digits (digits II-V) connected by membranes - to
power their flight. In addition to the elongated digits II-V, the forelimb
contains one shorter digit (digit I) that is morphologically similar to the
hindlimb digits. Here, we capitalized on the morphological variation among the
bat forelimb digits to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying digit
elongation and wing formation. Using next generation sequencing technology, we
performed digital gene expression tag profiling (DGE-tag profiling) of developing
digits in a pooled sample of two Myotis ricketti and validated our sequencing
results using real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) of gene expression in the
developing digits of two Hipposideros armiger.
RESULTS: Among hundreds of genes exhibiting significant differences in expression
between the short and long digits, we highlight 14 genes most related to digit
elongation. These genes include two Tbx genes (Tbx3 and Tbx15), five BMP pathway 
genes (Bmp3, RGMB, Smad1, Smad4 and Nog), four Homeobox genes (Hoxd8, Hoxd9,
Hoxa1 and Satb1), and three other genes (Twist1, Tmeff2 and Enpp2) related to
digit malformations or cell proliferation. In addition, our results suggest that 
Tbx4 and Pitx2 contribute to the morphological similarity and five genes (Acta1, 
Tnnc2, Atp2a1, Hrc and Myoz1) contribute to the functional similarity between the
thumb and hindlimb digits.
CONCLUSIONS: Results of this study not only implicate many developmental genes as
robust candidates underlying digit elongation and wing formation in bats, but
also provide a better understanding of the genes involved in autopodial
development in general.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-11-619 
PMCID: PMC3017863
PMID: 21054883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1338. Tohoku J Exp Med. 2010 Nov;222(3):187-93.

Identification and characteristics of microRNAs with altered expression patterns 
in a rat model of abdominal aortic aneurysms.

Liu G(1), Huang Y, Lu X, Lu M, Huang X, Li W, Jiang M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Shanghai Ninth People's Hospital, Shanghai
Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, PR China.

Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a lethal disease, occurring mostly in men more
than 65 years of age. Until recently, the pathogenesis of AAA remains poorly
understood. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a novel class of endogenous small non-coding
RNAs that play important roles in diverse biological and pathological processes
including cardiovascular diseases. However, their biological roles in AAA
formation have not been elucidated. In this study, we employed oligonucleotide
microarrays to detect and compare miRNA expression profiles in a rat model of
AAA. The abdominal aorta was exposed and incubated for 20 min with saline
supplemented with calcium chloride and collagenase. After 28 days, the treated
aortas were evaluated by digital measurement and angiography. A 50% increase over
the normal diameter is considered as AAA. Our results revealed a set of
differentially expressed miRNAs, with 10 significantly up-regulated and 5
significantly down-regulated miRNAs in AAA tissues. Four miRNAs (miR-19a,
miR-19b, miR-132, and miR-221) were randomly selected for validation using
real-time RT-PCR. Functional annotations of all putative targets of
differentially expressed miRNAs via bioinformatics approaches revealed that
predicted targets were highly enriched and involved in several key signaling
pathways important for AAA formation, including pathways in cancer and signaling 
pathways involving mitogen-activated protein kinase, Wnt, neurotrophin, and ErbB.
In summary, this study indicates that miRNAs might contribute to AAA formation
probably by affecting multiple target genes and signaling pathways, which is
expected to provide new clues to develop targeted therapies against this
calamitous disease.


PMID: 21030819  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1339. Exp Mol Pathol. 2011 Feb;90(1):97-100. doi: 10.1016/j.yexmp.2010.10.009. Epub
2010 Oct 20.

The diagnostic value of PCA3 gene-based analysis of urine sediments after digital
rectal examination for prostate cancer in a Chinese population.

Shen M(1), Chen W, Yu K, Chen Z, Zhou W, Lin X, Weng Z, Li C, Wu X, Tao Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Laboratory, The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou
Medical College, Zhejiang, PR China.

Prostate cancer gene 3 (PCA3) encodes a prostate-specific mRNA that has shown
promise as a prostate cancer (PCa) diagnostic tool and is detectable in prostate 
cancer cells shedding into urine after digital rectal examination (DRE). In our
earlier studies, a tissue test for PCA3 appeared to have greater specificity for 
PCa. There, we performed a clinical evaluation of PCA3 mRNA assay in urine
sediments after DRE enriched with prostate cells in a Chinese population. PCA3
mRNA was detected by real-time fluorescent quantitative reverse
transcription-polymerase chain reaction (FQ-RT-PCR) in the urine sediments. PSA
mRNA detected also by real-time FQ-RT-PCR was used to confirm the yield of
prostate cells in the urine sediments beforehand and normalize PCA3 mRNA signals.
The data were summarized in a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve to
visualize the efficacy of ratio PCA3/PSA mRNA as a marker; sensitivity and
specificity were calculated also. We also correlated the ratio PCA3/PSA mRNA to
the biopsy results (including the presence or absence of malignancy and the
Gleason score of the malignancy cases) and to the bone metastasis to evaluate its
clinical value. The PCA3 mRNA expression (PCA3/PSA mRNA) in the PCa group was
significantly higher than that in the BPH group. The AUC-ROC was 0.786 (95% CI:
0.683-0.889). When the cutoff value was set as 0.107, the sensitivity and
specificity were 62.9% and 90.6%, respectively. The positive predictive value and
negative predictive value of the PCA3 urine test was 78.6% and 81.7%,
respectively. No significant correlation was found between urine PCA3 expression 
and Gleason score or bone metastasis. Results indicated the clinical usefulness
of the PCA3/PSA mRNA of urine sediments after DRE as a molecular marker in the
early diagnosis of prostate cancer, which appears to be highly specific for PCa. 
As a non-invasive and sample accessible assay, the PCA3/PSA mRNA may therefore be
useful as an aid in the diagnosis of PCa.

Copyright Â© 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yexmp.2010.10.009 
PMID: 20970419  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1340. Acta Physiol (Oxf). 2011 Jan;201(1):97-107. doi:
10.1111/j.1748-1716.2010.02207.x. Epub 2010 Nov 12.

Expression of acid-sensing ion channels in intestinal epithelial cells and their 
role in the regulation of duodenal mucosal bicarbonate secretion.

Dong X(1), Ko KH, Chow J, Tuo B, Barrett KE, Dong H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Diego, USA.

AIMS: As little is currently known about acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) in
intestinal epithelial cells, the aims of the present study were to investigate
the expression and function of ASICs in intestinal epithelial cells, particularly
their physiological role in the acid-stimulated duodenal mucosal bicarbonate
secretion (DMBS).
METHODS: RT-PCR and digital Ca²(+) imaging were used to determine the expression 
and function of ASICs in HT29 cells and SCBN cells, intestinal epithelial crypt
cell lines. The acid-stimulated DMBS was measured in C57 black mice in vivo to
study the role of ASICs in this physiological process.
RESULTS: ASIC1a mRNA expression was detected in the duodenal mucosa stripped from
mice and epithelial cell lines, in which cytoplasmic free Ca²(+) ([Ca²(+) ](cyt))
in response to extracellular acidosis was also increased. In Ca²(+) -containing
solutions, acidosis (pH 6.0-5.0) raised [Ca²(+) ](cyt) in both HT29 cells and
SCBN cells in a similar pH-dependent manner. Acidosis-induced increase in [Ca²(+)
](cyt) was markedly inhibited by amiloride (an ASICs blocker), SK&F96365 (a
blocker for non-selective cation channels), or in Ca²(+) -free solutions; but was
abolished by amiloride in Ca²(+) -free solutions. However, acidosis-induced
increase in [Ca²(+) ](cyt) was slightly affected by U73122 (a PLC inhibitor), or 
nifedipine (a voltage-gated Ca²(+) channel blocker). After acidosis raised
[Ca²(+) ](cyt) , stimulation of purinergic receptors with ATP further increased
[Ca²(+) ](cyt) , but acidosis-induced increase in [Ca²(+) ](cyt) was not altered 
by suramin. Moreover, acid-stimulated murine DMBS was significantly attenuated by
amiloride.
CONCLUSION: Therefore, ASICs are functionally expressed in intestinal epithelial 
cells, and may play a role in acid-stimulated DMBS through a Ca²(+) signalling
pathway.

© 2010 The Authors. Acta Physiologica © 2010 Scandinavian Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1748-1716.2010.02207.x 
PMCID: PMC4095866
PMID: 20969730  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1341. Expert Rev Mol Diagn. 2010 Oct;10(7):875-82. doi: 10.1586/erm.10.74.

Is there a niche for DNA microarrays in molecular diagnostics?

Jordan BR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Marseille-Nice Genopole, Case 906, Luminy Science Park, 13288 Marseille Cedex 
9, France. bertrand.jordan@univmed.fr

DNA microarrays, 15 years after their appearance, have achieved presence in a
number of medical settings. Several tests have been introduced and have obtained 
regulatory approval, mostly in the fields of bacterial identification, mutation
detection and the global assessment of genome alterations, a particularly
successful case being the whole-genome assay of copy-number variations.
Gene-expression applications have been less successful because of technical
issues (e.g., reproducibility, platform-to-platform consistency and statistical
issues in data analysis) and difficulties in demonstrating the clinical utility
of expression signatures. In their different applications, DNA arrays have faced 
competition from PCR-based assays for low and intermediate multiplicity. Now they
have a new competitor, new-generation sequencing, that can provide a wealth of
direct sequence information, or digital gene-expression data, at a constantly
decreasing cost. In this article we evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of the 
DNA microarray approach to diagnostics, and highlight the fields in which it is
most likely to achieve a durable presence.

DOI: 10.1586/erm.10.74 
PMID: 20964608  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1342. PLoS One. 2010 Oct 8;5(10):e13205. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0013205.

Ultra-deep sequencing reveals the microRNA expression pattern of the human
stomach.

Ribeiro-dos-Santos Â(1), Khayat AS, Silva A, Alencar DO, Lobato J, Luz L,
Pinheiro DG, Varuzza L, Assumpção M, Assumpção P, Santos S, Zanette DL, Silva WA 
Jr, Burbano R, Darnet S.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal do Pará, Belém, Brazil.
akely@ufpa.br

BACKGROUND: While microRNAs (miRNAs) play important roles in tissue
differentiation and in maintaining basal physiology, little is known about the
miRNA expression levels in stomach tissue. Alterations in the miRNA profile can
lead to cell deregulation, which can induce neoplasia.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: A small RNA library of stomach tissue was
sequenced using high-throughput SOLiD sequencing technology. We obtained 261,274 
quality reads with perfect matches to the human miRnome, and 42% of known miRNAs 
were identified. Digital Gene Expression profiling (DGE) was performed based on
read abundance and showed that fifteen miRNAs were highly expressed in gastric
tissue. Subsequently, the expression of these miRNAs was validated in 10 healthy 
individuals by RT-PCR showed a significant correlation of 83.97% (P<0.05). Six
miRNAs showed a low variable pattern of expression (miR-29b, miR-29c, miR-19b,
miR-31, miR-148a, miR-451) and could be considered part of the expression pattern
of the healthy gastric tissue.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: This study aimed to validate normal miRNA profiles of
human gastric tissue to establish a reference profile for healthy individuals.
Determining the regulatory processes acting in the stomach will be important in
the fight against gastric cancer, which is the second-leading cause of cancer
mortality worldwide.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0013205 
PMCID: PMC2951895
PMID: 20949028  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1343. Med Princ Pract. 2010;19(6):433-9. doi: 10.1159/000320300. Epub 2010 Sep 28.

Endogenous control genes in prostate cells: evaluation of gene expression using
'real-time' quantitative polymerase chain reaction.

Nna E(1), Tothill IE, Ludeman L, Bailey T.

Author information: 
(1)Cranfield Health, Cranfield University, Cranfield, UK.
e.nna@safetybiomedical.org

OBJECTIVE: Our aims were to measure the level of expression of Abelson (ABL1),
β-glucuronidase (GUS) and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) genes in
exfoliated urine cells from healthy and transrectal ultrasound biopsy patients
with elevated prostate-specific antigen levels and/or abnormal digital rectal
examinations or urinary symptoms indicative of prostate problems, as well as in
archived formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded prostate materials.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RQ-PCR) 
was used to evaluate the suitability of the 3 control genes, i.e. ABL1, GUS and
G6PD, as control genes for prostate cancer cells. Exfoliated urine cells from 30 
healthy males, 53 male patients, 138 cases of archived paraffin-embedded prostate
tissues and 3 prostate cell lines were sampled. All cells were lysed in guanidine
isothiocyanate buffer from which RNA was extracted and converted to cDNA by
random hexamer priming. RQ-PCR was performed using TaqMan chemistries.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in the level of expression for each 
of the 3 control genes in the cell lines. There was a significant difference in
GUS transcript level between patients and healthy controls in both urine and
prostate tissue sections (p < 0.05). G6PD transcript numbers also differed
significantly from those of GUS in the prostate cell lines and tissue sections (p
< 0.05). The transcript numbers of all the control genes were significantly
reduced in aged samples (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: The ABL1 gene was the most stable control gene in both clinical
specimens and cell lines. Therefore, we recommend its use to enable
standardization and interlaboratory comparisons for the RQ-PCR of prostatic
tumour markers.

Copyright © 2010 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000320300 
PMID: 20881409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1344. Vet Microbiol. 2011 Mar 24;148(2-4):161-7. doi: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2010.08.031.
Epub 2010 Sep 8.

Prevalence of bovine papillomavirus and Treponema DNA in bovine digital
dermatitis lesions.

Brandt S(1), Apprich V, Hackl V, Tober R, Danzer M, Kainzbauer C, Gabriel C,
Stanek C, Kofler J.

Author information: 
(1)Equine Biotechnology Unit, Equine Clinic, Veterinary University Vienna,
Veterinaerplatz 1, A-1210 Vienna, Austria. sabine.brandt@vetmeduni.ac.at

Bovine digital dermatitis (BDD) is a common infectious foot disease whose
aetiology is not fully understood. Its origin is thought to be multifactorial,
with treponemes being involved. Using PCR-based techniques, BDD samples from 45
affected cows and intact skin from 8 BDD-affected and 33 healthy cows were
assessed for the presence of bovine papillomavirus and Treponema DNA. BPV DNA
(mainly BPV-1/2) was detected in 22% of lesions and one skin sample from affected
animals, and in 15% (BPV-1/-2) and 23% (BPV-3/4/6/9/10) of skin samples from
healthy cows. Using quantitative PCR, Treponema DNA was demonstrated in 38/45 BDD
lesions, with bacterial DNA loads ranging between 2 × 10(3) and 2.78 × 10(5)
copies/40 ng of total DNA. Qualitative PCR confirmed this result and revealed
Treponema DNA in 4 additional BDD samples, thus leading to an overall infection
rate of 93.3%. Sequence analysis of amplified Treponema DNA revealed T. pedis sp.
nov. in 51%, T. medium ssp. bovis in 37.7%, and T. phagedenis ssp. vaccae in 4.4%
of lesions. T. brennaborense was not detected in any of the samples. Six BDD
samples contained type IV oral Treponema strains, 6 other harboured so far
unpublished Treponema sequences. To our knowledge, this is the first report
providing information on BPV infection in BDD-affected cattle, and the Treponema 
DNA load and occurrence of type IV treponemes in BDD samples. Our findings
further support an etiologic association of treponemes, particularly T. pedis sp.
nov., with BDD disease, yet indicate that BPVs do not directly contribute to BDD 
development.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2010.08.031 
PMID: 20875931  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1345. Bioinformatics. 2010 Nov 15;26(22):2863-6. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btq544.
Epub 2010 Sep 23.

Statistical considerations for digital approaches to non-invasive fetal
genotyping.

Chu T(1), Bunce K, Hogge WA, Peters DG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology and Reproductive Sciences, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

MOTIVATION: A growing body of literature has demonstrated the potential for
non-invasive diagnosis of a variety of human genetic diseases using cell-free DNA
extracted from maternal plasma samples in early gestation. Such methods are of
great significance to the obstetrics community because of their potential use as 
clinical standard of care. Proof of concept for such approaches has been
established for aneuploidy and paternally inherited dominant traits. Although
significant progress has recently been made, the non-invasive diagnosis of
monogenic diseases that segregate in a recessive mendelian fashion is more
problematic. Recent developments in microfluidic digital PCR and DNA sequencing
have resulted in a number of recent advances in this field. These have largely,
although not exclusively, been used for the development of diagnostic methods for
aneuploidy. However, given their prevalence, it is likely that such methods will 
be utilized towards the development of non-invasive methods for diagnosing
monogenetic disorders.
RESULTS: With this in mind, we have undertaken a statistical modeling of three
contemporary (digital) analytical methods in the context of prenatal diagnosis
using cell free DNA for monogenic diseases that segregate in a recessive
mendelian fashion. We provide an experimental framework for the future
development of diagnostic methods in this context that should be considered when 
designing molecular assays that seek to establish proof of concept in this field.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btq544 
PMID: 20870643  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1346. Cell Physiol Biochem. 2010;26(3):457-70. doi: 10.1159/000320569. Epub 2010 Aug
24.

Gender-specific reduction in contraction is associated with increased estrogen
receptor expression in single vascular smooth muscle cells of female rat.

Ma Y(1), Qiao X, Falone AE, Reslan OM, Sheppard SJ, Khalil RA.

Author information: 
(1)Vascular Surgery Research Laboratory, Division of Vascular and Endovascular
Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, and Harvard Medical School, Boston.

Gender differences in the incidence of cardiovascular disease have been related
to plasma estrogen levels; however, the role of vascular estrogen receptor (ER)
subtypes in these sex differences is less clear. We tested whether the gender
differences in vascular smooth muscle (VSM) function reflect differential
expression/activity of ERalpha, ERbeta and the newly-identified GPR30. Single
aortic VSM cells (VSMCs) were freshly isolated from male and female
Sprague-Dawley rats, and their contraction to phenylephrine (PHE, 10(-5) M),
AngII (10(-7) M) and membrane-depolarization by KCl (51 mM) was measured in the
absence or presence of 10(-6) M 17beta-estradiol (E2, stimulant of most ERs), PPT
(ERalpha agonist), DPN (ERbeta agonist), and ICI 182,780 (an ERalpha/ERbeta
antagonist with GPR30 agonistic properties). The cells were fixed and
fluorescently labeled with ERalpha, ERbeta or GPR30 antibody, and the subcellular
distribution of ERs was examined using digital imaging microscopy. The mRNA
expression and protein amount of aortic ER subtypes was examined using RT-PCR and
Western blots. PHE, AngII, and KCl caused less contraction in VSMCs of females
than males. Pretreatment of VSMCs with E2 reduced PHE-, AngII- and KCl-induced
contraction in both males and females. PPT caused similar inhibition of PHE-,
AngII- and KCl-induced contraction as E2, suggesting a role of ERalpha. DPN
mainly inhibited PHE and KCl contraction, suggesting an interaction between
ERbeta and Ca(2+) channels. ICI 182,780 did not reduce aortic VSMC contraction,
suggesting little role for GPR30. RT-PCR and Western blots revealed greater
expression of ERalpha and ERbeta in VSMCs of females than males, but similar
amounts of GPR30. The total immunofluorescence signal for ERalpha and ERbeta was 
greater in VSMCs of females than males, and was largely localized in the nucleus.
GPR30 fluorescence was similar in VSMCs of males and females, and was mainly in
the cytosol. In PPT treated cells, nuclear ERalpha signal was enhanced. DPN did
not affect the distribution of ERbeta, and ICI 182,780 did not significantly
increase GPR30 in the cell surface. Thus, ER subtypes demonstrate similar
responsiveness to specific agonists in VSMCs of male and female rats. The reduced
contraction in VSMCs of females could be due to gender-related increase in the
expression of ERalpha and ERbeta.

Copyright 2010 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000320569 
PMCID: PMC2929922
PMID: 20798531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1347. Lab Invest. 2010 Nov;90(11):1628-36. doi: 10.1038/labinvest.2010.158. Epub 2010
Aug 23.

TLR2 expression and signaling-dependent inflammation impair wound healing in
diabetic mice.

Dasu MR(1), Thangappan RK, Bourgette A, DiPietro LA, Isseroff R, Jialal I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of California Davis, Sacramento, CA, USA.

Toll-like receptor-2 (TLR2) is a pivotal pathogen recognition receptor that has a
key role in inflammation, diabetes, and injury. Hyperglycemia, inflammation, and 
oxidative stress induce TLR2-myeloid differentiation factor-88 (MyD88) expression
and signaling, and are major pathophysiological mechanisms in the impaired
diabetic wound-healing process. The aim of the study was to examine the
contribution of TLR2-MyD88 expression and signaling to the prolonged inflammation
observed in diabetic wounds. Diabetes was induced in male C57BL/6J and TLR2(-/-) 
mice using streptozotocin (STZ) with matching nondiabetic mice as control. In
addition, nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice were used to represent the spontaneous
type 1 diabetes condition. After 2 weeks of persistent hyperglycemia in the mice,
full-thickness excision wounds were made on the backs aseptically. Total RNA and 
protein were subjected to real-time PCR and western blot analyses. Wound sizes
were measured using digital planimetry. TLR2 mRNA and protein expression
increased significantly in wounds of C57BL/6J+STZ and NOD mice (P<0.05) compared 
with nondiabetic C57BL/6J mice. MyD88 expression, interleukin receptor-associated
kinase-1 phosphorylation, and nuclear factor-κ B (NF-κB) activation were
increased in diabetic wounds compared with nondiabetic wounds. Wounds of
TLR2(-/-)+STZ mice showed less oxidative stress, decreased MyD88 signaling, NF-κB
activation, and cytokine secretion. The wound closure was significant in
TLR2(-/-)+ STZ mice compared with C57BL/6J+STZ mice. Collectively, our findings
show that increased TLR2 mRNA and protein expression, signaling, and activation
contribute to the prolonged inflammation in the diabetic wounds and that absence 
of TLR2 may result in decreased inflammation and improved wound healing.

DOI: 10.1038/labinvest.2010.158 
PMID: 20733560  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1348. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2011 Mar;17(3):711-9. doi: 10.1002/ibd.21437. Epub 2010 Aug
18.

Amelioration of excess collagen IαI, fibrosis, and smooth muscle growth in
TNBS-induced colitis in IGF-I(+/-) mice.

Mahavadi S(1), Flynn RS, Grider JR, Qiao LY, Murthy KS, Hazelgrove KB, Kuemmerle 
JF.

Author information: 
(1)Medical College of Virginia Campus, Virginia Commonwealth University,
Richmond, Virginia 23298-0341, USA.

BACKGROUND: Strictures occur in ≈ 30% of patients with Crohn's disease (CD) and
are characterized by intestinal smooth muscle hyperplasia, hypertrophy, and
fibrosis due to excess extracellular matrix production including collagen.
Insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) expression is increased in smooth muscle
cells of the muscularis propria in CD and in animal models of CD, including
trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis. While upregulated IGF-I is 
conjectured to cause smooth muscle cell growth and collagen production in the
inflamed intestine, its role in the development of fibrosis has not been directly
demonstrated.
METHODS: Colitis was induced in IGF-I(+/-) or wildtype C57BL/6J mice by rectal
administration of TNBS or ethanol vehicle. After 7 days, colonic smooth muscle
cells were isolated and used to prepare RNA or protein lysates. Transcript levels
of IGF-IEa, IGF binding protein (IGFBP)-3, IGFBP-5, TGF-β1, and collagen IαI were
measured by quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction
(RT-PCR). Corresponding protein levels were measured by Western blot or
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Fibrosis was measured using digital
image analysis of Masson's trichrome-stained histologic sections.
RESULTS: In IGF-I(+/-) mice, which express significantly lower levels of IGF-I
than wildtype, the response to TNBS-induced colitis: upregulation of IGF-I,
IGFBP-3, IGFBP-5 muscle growth, and collagen IαI expression, the resulting
collagen deposition, and fibrosis are all significantly diminished compared to
C57BL/6J wildtype controls. TGF-β1 expression and its increase following TNBS
administration are not altered in IGF-I(+/-) mice compared to wildtype.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings indicate that IGF-I is a key regulator in intestinal
smooth muscle hyperplasia and excess collagen production that leads to fibrosis
and long term to stricture formation.

Copyright © 2010 Crohn's & Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ibd.21437 
PMCID: PMC2990779
PMID: 20722057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1349. Genome Med. 2010 Aug 5;2(8):50. doi: 10.1186/gm171.

Prenatal diagnosis of fetal aneuploidies: post-genomic developments.

Hahn S(1), Jackson LG, Zimmermann BG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedicine, University Women's Hospital, University Clinics
Basel, Hebelstrasse 20, CH-4031, Switzerland. shahn@uhbs.ch.

Prenatal diagnosis of fetal aneuploidies and chromosomal anomalies is likely to
undergo a profound change in the near future. On the one hand this is mediated by
new technical developments, such as chromosomal microarrays, which allow a much
more precise delineation of minute sub-microscopic chromosomal aberrancies than
the classical G-band karyotype. This will be of particular interest when
investigating pregnancies at risk of unexplained development delay, intellectual 
disability or certain forms of autism. On the other hand, great strides have been
made in the non-invasive determination of fetal genetic traits, largely through
the analysis of cell-free fetal nucleic acids. It is hoped that, with the
assistance of cutting-edge tools such as digital PCR or next generation
sequencing, the long elusive goal of non-invasive prenatal diagnosis for fetal
aneuploidies can finally be attained.

DOI: 10.1186/gm171 
PMCID: PMC2945007
PMID: 20687900 


1350. BMC Med Genomics. 2010 Aug 3;3:32. doi: 10.1186/1755-8794-3-32.

A sequence-based approach to identify reference genes for gene expression
analysis.

Chari R(1), Lonergan KM, Pikor LA, Coe BP, Zhu CQ, Chan TH, MacAulay CE, Tsao MS,
Lam S, Ng RT, Lam WL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrative Oncology, British Columbia Cancer Agency Research
Centre, Vancouver, BC, Canada. rchari@bccrc.ca

BACKGROUND: An important consideration when analyzing both microarray and
quantitative PCR expression data is the selection of appropriate genes as
endogenous controls or reference genes. This step is especially critical when
identifying genes differentially expressed between datasets. Moreover, reference 
genes suitable in one context (e.g. lung cancer) may not be suitable in another
(e.g. breast cancer). Currently, the main approach to identify reference genes
involves the mining of expression microarray data for highly expressed and
relatively constant transcripts across a sample set. A caveat here is the
requirement for transcript normalization prior to analysis, and measurements
obtained are relative, not absolute. Alternatively, as sequencing-based
technologies provide digital quantitative output, absolute quantification ensues,
and reference gene identification becomes more accurate.
METHODS: Serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) profiles of non-malignant and 
malignant lung samples were compared using a permutation test to identify the
most stably expressed genes across all samples. Subsequently, the specificity of 
the reference genes was evaluated across multiple tissue types, their constancy
of expression was assessed using quantitative RT-PCR (qPCR), and their impact on 
differential expression analysis of microarray data was evaluated.
RESULTS: We show that (i) conventional references genes such as ACTB and GAPDH
are highly variable between cancerous and non-cancerous samples, (ii) reference
genes identified for lung cancer do not perform well for other cancer types
(breast and brain), (iii) reference genes identified through SAGE show low
variability using qPCR in a different cohort of samples, and (iv) normalization
of a lung cancer gene expression microarray dataset with or without our reference
genes, yields different results for differential gene expression and subsequent
analyses. Specifically, key established pathways in lung cancer exhibit higher
statistical significance using a dataset normalized with our reference genes
relative to normalization without using our reference genes.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analyses found NDUFA1, RPL19, RAB5C, and RPS18 to occupy the top
ranking positions among 15 suitable reference genes optimal for normalization of 
lung tissue expression data. Significantly, the approach used in this study can
be applied to data generated using new generation sequencing platforms for the
identification of reference genes optimal within diverse contexts.

DOI: 10.1186/1755-8794-3-32 
PMCID: PMC2928167
PMID: 20682026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1351. Mol Autism. 2010 Mar 19;1(1):5. doi: 10.1186/2040-2392-1-5.

A large-scale survey of the novel 15q24 microdeletion syndrome in autism spectrum
disorders identifies an atypical deletion that narrows the critical region.

McInnes LA(1), Nakamine A, Pilorge M, Brandt T, Jiménez González P, Fallas M,
Manghi ER, Edelmann L, Glessner J, Hakonarson H, Betancur C, Buxbaum JD.

Author information: 
(1)Seaver Autism Center for Research and Treatment, Department of Psychiatry,
Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY 10029, USA. Joseph.Buxbaum@mssm.edu.

BACKGROUND: The 15q24 microdeletion syndrome has been recently described as a
recurrent, submicroscopic genomic imbalance found in individuals with
intellectual disability, typical facial appearance, hypotonia, and digital and
genital abnormalities. Gene dosage abnormalities, including copy number
variations (CNVs), have been identified in a significant fraction of individuals 
with autism spectrum disorders (ASDs). In this study we surveyed two ASD cohorts 
for 15q24 abnormalities to assess the frequency of genomic imbalances in this
interval.
METHODS: We screened 173 unrelated subjects with ASD from the Central Valley of
Costa Rica and 1336 subjects with ASD from 785 independent families registered
with the Autism Genetic Resource Exchange (AGRE) for CNVs across 15q24 using
oligonucleotide arrays. Rearrangements were confirmed by array comparative
genomic hybridization and quantitative PCR.
RESULTS: Among the patients from Costa Rica, an atypical de novo deletion of 3.06
Mb in 15q23-q24.1 was detected in a boy with autism sharing many features with
the other 13 subjects with the 15q24 microdeletion syndrome described to date. He
exhibited intellectual disability, constant smiling, characteristic facial
features (high anterior hairline, broad medial eyebrows, epicanthal folds,
hypertelorism, full lower lip and protuberant, posteriorly rotated ears), single 
palmar crease, toe syndactyly and congenital nystagmus. The deletion breakpoints 
are atypical and lie outside previously characterized low copy repeats
(69,838-72,897 Mb). Genotyping data revealed that the deletion had occurred in
the paternal chromosome. Among the AGRE families, no large 15q24 deletions were
observed.
CONCLUSIONS: From the current and previous studies, deletions in the 15q24 region
represent rare causes of ASDs with an estimated frequency of 0.1 to 0.2% in
individuals ascertained for ASDs, although the proportion might be higher in
sporadic cases. These rates compare with a frequency of about 0.3% in patients
ascertained for unexplained intellectual disability and congenital anomalies.
This atypical deletion reduces the minimal interval for the syndrome from 1.75 Mb
to 766 kb, implicating a reduced number of genes (15 versus 38). Sequencing of
genes in the 15q24 interval in large ASD and intellectual disability samples may 
identify mutations of etiologic importance in the development of these disorders.

DOI: 10.1186/2040-2392-1-5 
PMCID: PMC2907565
PMID: 20678247 


1352. Braz Oral Res. 2010 Apr-Jun;24(2):238-44.

Seal capability of interim post and core crown with temporary cements.

Bönecker-Valverde G(1), Maniglia-Ferreira C, Abi-Rached GP, Gomes BP, Mesquita
MF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Periodontics and Prosthodontics, Piracicaba Dental School,
University of Campinas, Piracicaba, SP, Brazil. guigavalverde@yahoo.com

The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the in vitro seal capability of 
interim post and core crown restorations. Eighty teeth were selected and divided 
into 8 groups. Four experimental groups received interim posts and core crowns.
Half of each group was decoronated at the cementum-enamel junction, groups PCCH
and PCZO. The other half was sectioned 2 mm coronal to the cementum-enamel
junction, groups PCrZO and PCrCH. The interim post and core crowns were luted
with Rely X Temp NE, groups PCrZO and PCZO; Hydro C was used for Groups PCrCH and
PCCH. The control groups, PC and PCr, received uncoated post and core crowns;
groups OTg and OT were left without interim post and core crowns and were totally
open. Infiltration was accessed by dye exposure followed by demineralization of
the teeth. The length of the infiltration was measured using digital images taken
from the specimens. The images were inserted into the Image Tool 3.0 software.
Kruskal-Wallis analysis of variance and Dunn's multiple comparison method were
used to test for significant differences among test groups (P < .05). Groups
PCrZO and PCrCH showed the least dye penetration, followed by groups PCZO and
PCCH. Teeth restored with interim post and core crowns will be subject to
leakage. Ethics Committee: 095/2008.


PMID: 20658045  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1353. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev. 2010 Aug;19(8):1984-91. doi:
10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-10-0287. Epub 2010 Jul 20.

Serum free circulating DNA is a useful biomarker to distinguish benign versus
malignant prostate disease.

Gordian E(1), Ramachandran K, Reis IM, Manoharan M, Soloway MS, Singal R.

Author information: 
(1)Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Miami School of Medicine,
1475 N.W. 12th Avenue, Miami, FL 33136, USA.

BACKGROUND: Free circulating DNA (fcDNA) has been shown to be elevated in serum
of prostate cancer patients compared with benign controls. However, studies
evaluating the role of fcDNA as a biomarker in a "representative" patient group
who have undergone prostate cancer screening are lacking. Our study examined the 
use of serum fcDNA levels as a biomarker of prostate cancer in such a setting.
METHODS: The study included 252 men, with prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels 
>4 ng/mL and/or abnormal digital rectal exam. fcDNA levels in serum before
prostate biopsy were quantitated by real-time PCR amplification of the
glutathione S-transferase, pi, gene.
RESULTS: Patients with PSA < or = 10 ng/mL with fcDNA > 180 ng/mL were at
increased risk for prostate cancer compared with those with fcDNA < or =180 ng/mL
(odds ratio, 4.27; 95% confidence interval, 2.05-8.88; P < 0.001; area under the 
curve, 0.742). The multivariate model including age, race, PSA, fcDNA, and
interaction between fcDNA and PSA yielded a high negative predictive value of
93.1% and increased specificity of 33.1% compared with negative predictive value 
of 73.3% and specificity of 6.7% in the model excluding fcDNA.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that fcDNA may improve the specificity of
prostate cancer screening.
IMPACT: Our study shows that adding fcDNA to prostate cancer screening can reduce
the number of unnecessary prostate biopsies.

(c)2010 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-10-0287 
PMID: 20647404  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1354. Int J Oncol. 2010 Aug;37(2):519-25.

Identification by a Digital Gene Expression Displayer (DGED) and test by RT-PCR
analysis of new mRNA candidate markers for colorectal cancer in peripheral blood.

Lauriola M(1), Ugolini G, Rosati G, Zanotti S, Montroni I, Manaresi A, Zattoni D,
Rivetti S, Mattei G, Coppola D, Strippoli P, Taffurelli M, Solmi R.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Istologia, Embriologia e Biologia Applicata, Università di
Bologna, I-40126 Bologna, Italy.

Evidence from the literature widely supports the efficacy of screening for
colorectal cancer (CRC) in reducing mortality. A blood-based assay, potentially, 
represents a more accessible early detection tool for the identification of
circulating tumour cells originating from a primary tumour site in the body. The 
present work aimed at identifying a set of specific mRNAs expressed in colon
tissue but not in blood cells. These mRNAs may represent useful markers for early
detection of circulating colon cancer cells by a simple, qualitative RT-PCR
assay, following RNA extraction from peripheral blood samples. Using a
data-mining tool called cDNA digital gene expression displayer (DGED), based on
serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) from the Cancer Genome Anatomy Project 
(CGAP) database, 4-colon and 14-blood cDNA libraries were analyzed. We selected 7
genes expressed in colon tissue but not in blood and were able to test 6 of them 
by RT-PCR in peripheral blood of CRC patients and healthy controls. We present a 
relatively easy and highly reproducible technique for the detection of mRNA
expression of genes as candidate markers of malignancy in blood samples of
patients with colon cancer. SAGE DGED provided a list of the best candidate mRNAs
predicted to detect colon cells in the blood, namely those encoding the following
proteins: hypothetical protein LOC644844 (LOC644844, whose cDNA was not
amplifiable), fatty acid binding protein 1 (FABP1), carcinoembryonic
antigen-related cell adhesion molecule 5 (CEACAM5), mucin 13 cell surface
associated (MUC13), guanylate cyclase activator 2A (GUCA2A), amiloride binding
protein 1 (ABP1), galactoside-binding, solute carrier family 26, member 3
(SLC26A3). The mRNA expression of these genes was evaluated in 8 samples from
subjects diagnosed with CRC and 9 from healthy controls. We observed the
expression of 2 of the 6 investigated genes in the blood samples of the vast
majority of patients considered, but also in a subset of the controls. Our data
confirm the extreme sensitivity of RT-PCR, making this technique able to detect
minimal amounts of mRNA expressed in a non-tissue-specific manner. Moreover, DGED
remains a powerful tool to identify candidate epithelial markers in blood, such
as colon related mRNAs. However, to date, none of these qualified as tumour
markers.


PMID: 20596680  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1355. Lab Chip. 2010 Oct 21;10(20):2666-72. doi: 10.1039/c004521g. Epub 2010 Jul 1.

Digital PCR on a SlipChip.

Shen F(1), Du W, Kreutz JE, Fok A, Ismagilov RF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Institute for Biophysical Dynamics, The University
of Chicago, 929 E 57th St, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.

This paper describes a SlipChip to perform digital PCR in a very simple and
inexpensive format. The fluidic path for introducing the sample combined with the
PCR mixture was formed using elongated wells in the two plates of the SlipChip
designed to overlap during sample loading. This fluidic path was broken up by
simple slipping of the two plates that removed the overlap among wells and
brought each well in contact with a reservoir preloaded with oil to generate 1280
reaction compartments (2.6 nL each) simultaneously. After thermal cycling,
end-point fluorescence intensity was used to detect the presence of nucleic acid.
Digital PCR on the SlipChip was tested quantitatively by using Staphylococcus
aureus genomic DNA. As the concentration of the template DNA in the reaction
mixture was diluted, the fraction of positive wells decreased as expected from
the statistical analysis. No cross-contamination was observed during the
experiments. At the extremes of the dynamic range of digital PCR the standard
confidence interval determined using a normal approximation of the binomial
distribution is not satisfactory. Therefore, statistical analysis based on the
score method was used to establish these confidence intervals. The SlipChip
provides a simple strategy to count nucleic acids by using PCR. It may find
applications in research applications such as single cell analysis, prenatal
diagnostics, and point-of-care diagnostics. SlipChip would become valuable for
diagnostics, including applications in resource-limited areas after integration
with isothermal nucleic acid amplification technologies and visual readout.

DOI: 10.1039/c004521g 
PMCID: PMC2948063
PMID: 20596567  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1356. Arch Ital Urol Androl. 2010 Mar;82(1):5-9.

PCA3: a new tool to diagnose prostate cancer (PCa) and a guidance in biopsy
decisions. Preliminary report of the UrOP study.

Galasso F(1), Giannella R, Bruni P, Giulivo R, Barbini VR, Disanto V, Leonardi R,
Pansadoro V, Sepe G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Casa di Cura Malzoni Villa Platani, Avellino, Italy.
fa_gala@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVES: PCA3 is a prostate specific non-coding mRNA that is significantly
overexpressed in prostate cancer tissue. Urinary PCA3 levels have been associated
with prostate cancer grade suggesting a significant role in the diagnosis of
prostate cancer. We measured urinary PCA3 score in 925 subjects from several
areas of Italy assessing in 114 the association of urinary PCA3 score with the
results of prostate biopsy.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: First-catch urine samples were collected after digital
rectal examination (DRE). PCA3 and PSA mRNA levels were measured using
Trascription-mediated PCR amplification. The PCA3 score was calculated as the
ratio of PCA3 and PSA mRNA (PCA3 mRNA/PSA mRNA x 1000) and the cut off was set at
35.
RESULTS: A total of 925 PCA3 tests were performed from December 2008 to January
2010. The rate of informative PCA3 test was 99%, with 915 subjects showing a
valid PCA3 score value: 443 patients (48.42%) presented a PCA3 score >/= 35
(cut-off) whereas the remaining 472 patients (51.58%) presented a PCA3 score
lower the cut-off limit (< 35). Of the 443 patients with PCA3 score >/= 35, 105
(23.70%) underwent biopsy or rebiopsy. We found that 27 patients (25.71%) had no 
tumour at biopsy, 37 (35.24%) had HGPIN or ASAP and 41 (39.05%) had a cancer.
Moreover, including the additonal 9 patients with PCA3 < 35, who underwent biopsy
post PCA3 results, our data indicate that patients with negative biopsy (n = 31) 
show lower PCA3 score (mean = 54.9) compared with patients with positive biopsy
(n = 45) (mean = 141.6) (p = 0.000183; two-tailed t-student test). The mean PCA3 
score (79.6)for the patients diagnosed with HGPIN/ASAP at biopsy (n = 38) was
intermediate between patients with negative and positive biopsy.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that the PCA3 score is a valid tool for
prostate cancer detection and its role in making better biopsy decisions. This
marker consents to discriminate patients who have to undergo biopsy from patients
who only need be actively surveilled: Quantitative PCA3 score is correlated with 
the probability of a positive result at biopsy.


PMID: 20593708  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1357. Anal Chem. 2010 Jul 1;82(13):5707-17. doi: 10.1021/ac100713u.

Self-digitization of sample volumes.

Cohen DE(1), Schneider T, Wang M, Chiu DT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington
98195-1700, USA.

This paper describes a very simple and robust microfluidic device for digitizing 
samples into an array of discrete volumes. The device is based on an inherent
fluidic phenomenon, where an incoming aqueous sample divides itself into an array
of chambers that have been primed with an immiscible phase. Self-digitization of 
sample volumes results from the interplay between fluidic forces, interfacial
tension, channel geometry, and the final stability of the digitized samples in
the chambers. Here, we describe experiments and simulations that were used to
characterize these parameters and the conditions under which the
self-digitization process occurred. Unlike existing methods used to partition
samples into an array, our method is able to digitize 100% of a sample into a
localized array without any loss of sample volume. The final volume of the
discretized sample at each location is defined by the geometry and size of each
chamber. Thus, we can form an array of samples with varying but predefined
volumes. We exploited this feature to separate the crystal growth of otherwise
concomitant polymorphs from a single solution. Additionally, we demonstrated the 
removal of the digitized samples from the chambers for downstream analysis, as
well as the addition of reagents to the digitized samples. We believe this simple
method will be useful in a broad range of applications where a large array of
discretized samples is required, including digital PCR, single-cell analysis, and
cell-based drug screening.

DOI: 10.1021/ac100713u 
PMCID: PMC2901535
PMID: 20550137  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1358. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol. 2011 Apr;137(4):621-7. doi: 10.1007/s00432-010-0916-6.
Epub 2010 Jun 9.

Expression of the Wnt antagonist DKK3 is frequently suppressed in sporadic
epithelial ovarian cancer.

You A(1), Fokas E, Wang LF, He H, Kleb B, Niederacher D, Engenhart-Cabillic R, An
HX.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiotherapy and Radiation Oncology, Philipps-University
Marburg, Baldingerstrasse, 35043 Marburg, Germany.

PURPOSE: The Wnt pathway plays an important role in embryonic development, and
defects in this pathway have been implicated in the tumorigenesis. The Dickkopf 3
(DKK3) is a putative Wnt signaling inhibitor that is frequently inactivated in
human cancers. However, the expression of DKK3 in ovarian cancer remains unknown.
METHODS: We investigated the expression of DKK3 in silico using the Digital
Differential Display. DKK3 mRNA expression was also analyzed by real-time RT-PCR 
in ovarian carcinomas and normal ovarian tissues. DKK3 protein expression was
determined by immunohistochemistry in the same ovarian carcinomas and normal
ovarian tissues.
RESULTS: A significantly reduced expression of DKK3 (P < 0.05) was found after
comparison of normal ovary- and tumor-derived libraries in the Cancer Genome
Anatomy Project (CGAP). DKK3 mRNA expression was reduced in 63% (35 of 56) of
tumors compared with normal ovarian samples (P < 0.02). Analysis of 13 matched
pairs of ovarian carcinomas and adjacent normal tissues showed significant
transcriptional downregulation of DKK3 (>twofold) in 9 paired carcinomas (69%).
Loss or weak membranous expression of DKK3 protein was observed in 66% of ovarian
cancers (37 of 56) including all tumors with low transcriptional level of DKK3
gene analyzed by real-time PCR.
CONCLUSIONS: To our best knowledge, this is the first time to demonstrate altered
expression of DKK3 in ovarian cancer. The latter could be a relevant mechanism
for the activation of the Wnt pathway in the carcinogenesis of ovarian cancer but
additional studies are required to elucidate the function of DKK3 silencing in
ovarian carcinogenesis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00432-010-0916-6 
PMID: 20532910  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1359. Nucleic Acids Res. 2010 Aug;38(14):e151. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkq510. Epub 2010 Jun
4.

Using next-generation sequencing for high resolution multiplex analysis of copy
number variation from nanogram quantities of DNA from formalin-fixed
paraffin-embedded specimens.

Wood HM(1), Belvedere O, Conway C, Daly C, Chalkley R, Bickerdike M, McKinley C, 
Egan P, Ross L, Hayward B, Morgan J, Davidson L, MacLennan K, Ong TK,
Papagiannopoulos K, Cook I, Adams DJ, Taylor GR, Rabbitts P.

Author information: 
(1)Leeds Institute of Molecular Medicine, St James's University Hospital, Leeds, 
UK. h.m.wood@leeds.ac.uk

The use of next-generation sequencing technologies to produce genomic copy number
data has recently been described. Most approaches, however, reply on optimal
starting DNA, and are therefore unsuitable for the analysis of formalin-fixed
paraffin-embedded (FFPE) samples, which largely precludes the analysis of many
tumour series. We have sought to challenge the limits of this technique with
regards to quality and quantity of starting material and the depth of sequencing 
required. We confirm that the technique can be used to interrogate DNA from cell 
lines, fresh frozen material and FFPE samples to assess copy number variation. We
show that as little as 5 ng of DNA is needed to generate a copy number karyogram,
and follow this up with data from a series of FFPE biopsies and surgical samples.
We have used various levels of sample multiplexing to demonstrate the adjustable 
resolution of the methodology, depending on the number of samples and available
resources. We also demonstrate reproducibility by use of replicate samples and
comparison with microarray-based comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) and
digital PCR. This technique can be valuable in both the analysis of routine
diagnostic samples and in examining large repositories of fixed archival
material.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkq510 
PMCID: PMC2919738
PMID: 20525786  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1360. Salud Publica Mex. 2010 Mar-Apr;52(2):127-33.

[Geospatial distribution and detection of dengue virus in Aedes (Stegomyia)
aegypti mosquitos in Ciudad Juárez, Chihuahua, Mexico].

[Article in Spanish]

de la Mora-Covarrubias A(1), Jiménez-Vega F, Treviño-Aguilar SM.

Author information: 
(1)Unidad de Cartografía Digital, Universidad Autónoma de Ciudad Juárez, Cd.
Juárez, Chihuahua, México. adelamor@uacj.mx

OBJECTIVE: To determine the distribution of Aedes aegypti in Ciudad Juárez,
Mexico and evaluate it as a carrier of the dengue virus.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Mosquitoes were collected using CDC minitraps. Nearest
neighbor and K-function were used as geospatial tools. The chi-square test was
utilized to evaluate the association between the presence of the vector and
sociodemographic variables. Evidence of infection was detected by RT-PCR.
RESULTS: A total of 122 female mosquitoes were captured. A tendency in the
cluster distribution (R= -1.2995, p= 0.05) of the mosquito was shown up to 4000 m
but none of the sociodemographic variables showed significant associations. Seven
of the pools tested were positive for DEN-2, ten were positive for DEN- 3, and
seven for both serotypes.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first report on the presence of Aedes aegypti mosquitoes
infected with dengue in the region, which will enable the promotion of monitoring
in order to reduce the probability of occurrence of the disease among the border 
population.


PMID: 20485869  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1361. Neuro Oncol. 2010 Sep;12(9):956-66. doi: 10.1093/neuonc/noq045. Epub 2010 May 14.

HDMX regulates p53 activity and confers chemoresistance to
3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea.

Jin G(1), Cook S, Cui B, Chen WC, Keir ST, Killela P, Di C, Payne CA, Gregory SG,
McLendon R, Bigner DD, Yan H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Pediatric Brain Tumor Foundation Institute and
Preston Robert Tisch Brain Tumor Center at Duke, Duke University Medical Center, 
Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.

Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is one of the deadliest tumors afflicting humans,
and the mechanisms of its onset and progression remain largely undefined. Our
attempts to elucidate its molecular pathogenesis through DNA copy-number analysis
by genome-wide digital karyotyping and single nucleotide polymorphism arrays
identified a dramatic focal amplification on chromosome 1q32 in 4 of 57 GBM
tumors. Quantitative real-time PCR measurements revealed that HDMX is the most
commonly amplified and overexpressed gene in the 1q32 locus. Further genetic
screening of 284 low- and high-grade gliomas revealed that HDMX amplifications
occur solely in pediatric and adult GBMs and that they are mutually exclusive of 
TP53 mutations and MDM2 amplifications. Here, we demonstrate that HDMX regulates 
p53 to promote GBM growth and attenuates tumor response to chemotherapy. In GBM
cells, HDMX overexpression inhibits p53-mediated transcriptional activation of
p21, releases cells from G0 to G1 phase, and enhances cellular proliferation.
HDMX overexpression does not affect the expression of PUMA and BAX proapoptotic
genes. While in GBM cells treated with the chemotherapeutic agent
1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU), HDMX appears to stabilize p53 and
promote phosphorylation of the DNA double-stranded break repair protein H2AX,
up-regulate the DNA repair gene VPX, stimulate DNA repair, and confer resistance 
to BCNU. In summary, HDMX exhibits bona fide oncogenic properties and offers a
promising molecular target for GBM therapeutic intervention.

DOI: 10.1093/neuonc/noq045 
PMCID: PMC2940701
PMID: 20472715  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1362. Lab Invest. 2010 Sep;90(9):1396-402. doi: 10.1038/labinvest.labinvest201098. Epub
2010 May 10.

Accurate quantification of dystrophin mRNA and exon skipping levels in duchenne
muscular dystrophy.

Spitali P(1), Heemskerk H, Vossen RH, Ferlini A, den Dunnen JT, 't Hoen PA,
Aartsma-Rus A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Genetics, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The
Netherlands. pietro.spitali@unife.it

Antisense oligonucleotide (AON)-mediated exon skipping aimed at restoring the
reading frame is a promising therapeutic approach for Duchenne muscular dystrophy
that is currently tested in clinical trials. Numerous AONs have been tested in
(patient-derived) cultured muscle cells and the mdx mouse model. The main outcome
to measure AON efficiency is usually the exon-skipping percentage, though
different groups use different methods to assess these percentages. Here, we
compare a series of techniques to quantify exon skipping levels in AON-treated
mdx mouse muscle. We compared densitometry of RT-PCR products on ethidium
bromide-stained agarose gels, primary and nested RT-PCR followed by bioanalyzer
analysis and melting curve analysis. The digital array system (Fluidigm) allows
absolute quantification of skipped vs non-skipped transcripts and was used as a
reference. Digital array results show that 1 ng of mdx gastrocnemius
muscle-derived mRNA contains approximately 1100 dystrophin transcripts and that
665 transcripts are sufficient to determine exon-skipping levels. Quantification 
using bioanalyzer or densitometric analysis of primary PCR products resulted in
values close to those obtained with digital array. The use of the same technique 
allows comparison between different groups working on exon skipping in the mdx
mouse model.

DOI: 10.1038/labinvest.labinvest201098 
PMID: 20458276  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1363. Lab Chip. 2010 May 21;10(10):1308-15. doi: 10.1039/b925705e. Epub 2010 Mar 5.

Multiphase bioreaction microsystem with automated on-chip droplet operation.

Wang F(1), Burns MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI
48109, USA.

A droplet-based bioreaction microsystem has been developed with automated droplet
generation and confinement. On-chip electronic sensing is employed to track the
position of the droplets by sensing the oil/aqueous interface in real time. The
sensing signal is also used to control the pneumatic supply for moving as well as
automatically generating four different nanolitre-sized droplets. The actual size
of droplets is very close to the designed droplet size with a standard deviation 
less than 3% of the droplet size. The automated droplet generation can be
completed in less than 2 s, which is 5 times faster than using manual operation
that takes at least 10 s. Droplets can also be automatically confined in the
reaction region with feedback pneumatic control and digital or analog sensing. As
an example bioreaction, PCR has been successfully performed in the automated
generated droplets. Although the amplification yield was slightly reduced with
the droplet confinement, especially while using the analog sensing method, adding
additional reagents effectively alleviated this inhibition.

DOI: 10.1039/b925705e 
PMCID: PMC2909751
PMID: 20445885  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1364. PLoS One. 2010 Apr 23;5(4):e10314. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0010314.

One bacterial cell, one complete genome.

Woyke T(1), Tighe D, Mavromatis K, Clum A, Copeland A, Schackwitz W, Lapidus A,
Wu D, McCutcheon JP, McDonald BR, Moran NA, Bristow J, Cheng JF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Energy Joint Genome Institute, Walnut Creek, California, United 
States of America.

While the bulk of the finished microbial genomes sequenced to date are derived
from cultured bacterial and archaeal representatives, the vast majority of
microorganisms elude current culturing attempts, severely limiting the ability to
recover complete or even partial genomes from these environmental species. Single
cell genomics is a novel culture-independent approach, which enables access to
the genetic material of an individual cell. No single cell genome has to our
knowledge been closed and finished to date. Here we report the completed genome
from an uncultured single cell of Candidatus Sulcia muelleri DMIN. Digital PCR on
single symbiont cells isolated from the bacteriome of the green sharpshooter
Draeculacephala minerva bacteriome allowed us to assess that this bacteria is
polyploid with genome copies ranging from approximately 200-900 per cell, making 
it a most suitable target for single cell finishing efforts. For single cell
shotgun sequencing, an individual Sulcia cell was isolated and whole genome
amplified by multiple displacement amplification (MDA). Sanger-based finishing
methods allowed us to close the genome. To verify the correctness of our single
cell genome and exclude MDA-derived artifacts, we independently shotgun sequenced
and assembled the Sulcia genome from pooled bacteriomes using a metagenomic
approach, yielding a nearly identical genome. Four variations we detected appear 
to be genuine biological differences between the two samples. Comparison of the
single cell genome with bacteriome metagenomic sequence data detected two single 
nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), indicating extremely low genetic diversity
within a Sulcia population. This study demonstrates the power of single cell
genomics to generate a complete, high quality, non-composite reference genome
within an environmental sample, which can be used for population genetic
analyzes.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0010314 
PMCID: PMC2859065
PMID: 20428247  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1365. Oral Oncol. 2010 Jul;46(7):536-42. doi: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2010.03.022. Epub 
2010 Apr 18.

Downstream targets of FOXM1: CEP55 and HELLS are cancer progression markers of
head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.

Waseem A(1), Ali M, Odell EW, Fortune F, Teh MT.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Clinical and Diagnostic Oral Sciences, Institute of Dentistry,
Barts and The London School of Medicine and Dentistry, Queen Mary University of
London, Turner Street, London E1 2AD, England, United Kingdom.

We recently showed that upregulation of a key oncogene FOXM1 precedes head and
neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) malignancy. Furthermore, we also identified 
a centrosomal protein CEP55 and a DNA helicase/putative stem cell marker HELLS,
which are both downstream targets of FOXM1. In this study, we have investigated
the expression profiles of CEP55 and HELLS using immunohistochemistry and
quantified by digital densitometry in a tissue panel (20 samples) consisting of
normal oral mucosa, dysplasias, HNSCC and lymph node metastasis (LnMet) samples. 
Furthermore, we corroborated our findings using absolute real-time PCR (qPCR) on 
a panel of 12 primary normal human oral keratinocytes, five dysplasia and 10
HNSCC cell lines. Finally, we validated our study using bioinformatics microarray
analysis on an independent HNSCC patient cohort (four normal and 16 tumours). In 
normal oral mucosa, CEP55 protein was detected at very low level within the upper
differentiated layers. In contrast, CEP55 was highly expressed in oral dysplasia 
whereas only moderate expression was detected in HNSCC and LnMet. Low level of
HELLS expression was detected in the basal cell layer of the normal oral mucosa, 
moderate level was seen in dysplasia and high levels in both HNSCC and LnMet.
These expression patterns were consistent with both qPCR data from the cell line 
panel and microarray data analysis of TNM-stage defined HNSCC samples confirming 
the progressive expression pattern of CEP55 and HELLS. To our knowledge, this is 
the first pilot study demonstrating that both CEP55 and HELLS mRNA and protein
expression positively correlate with pre-malignancy and HNSCC progression. This
study provides strong evidence that CEP55 and HELLS may be used in conjunction
with FOXM1 as a biomarker set for early cancer detection and indicators of
malignant conversion and progression.

DOI: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2010.03.022 
PMID: 20400365  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1366. Int J Oncol. 2010 May;36(5):1105-11.

Hs.137007 is a novel epigenetic marker hypermethylated and up-regulated in breast
cancer.

Kim TW(1), Kim YJ, Lee HJ, Min SY, Kang HS, Kim SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Science, Dongguk Univ-Seoul, Seoul 100-715, Korea.

This study was conducted to mine novel breast-specific unigenes and analyze their
epigenetic regulation in breast cancer. Differential digital display and
methylation analysis identified the Hs.137007 gene containing a Kelch domain as a
candidate novel epigenetic marker. In 50 pairs of breast cancer tissues and
nearby normal tissues the methylation level of the 14 CpG sites at the promoter
region (-778 to -485) of the gene was higher in cancer tissues (72-93%) than in
normal tissues (31-83%), with a high correlation rate (p<0.05). End-point RT-PCR 
and real-time RT-PCR revealed that Hs.137007 was up-regulated in cancer tissues. 
A clear relationship between high methylation levels and up-regulated expression 
was also observed in the cultured breast cell lines. The MCF7 (90-100%) and
MDAMB468 (100%) cancer cell lines that showed higher methylation than the BT549
(20-90%) and 184B5 (10-100%) at the 14 CpGs also showed elevated gene expression.
Taken together, these results indicate that the Hs.137007 gene is a novel gene
specifically expressed in the breast that can be utilized as an epigenetic marker
of breast cancer.


PMID: 20372783  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1367. Biotechniques. 2010 Mar;48(3):219-22. doi: 10.2144/000113367.

Concordance among digital gene expression, microarrays, and qPCR when measuring
differential expression of microRNAs.

Pradervand S(1), Weber J, Lemoine F, Consales F, Paillusson A, Dupasquier M,
Thomas J, Richter H, Kaessmann H, Beaudoing E, Hagenbüchle O, Harshman K.

Author information: 
(1)Genomic Technologies Facility, Center for Integrative Genomics, University of 
Lausanne, Genopode Building, Lausanne, Switzerland. sylvain.pradervand@unil.ch

Profiling microRNA (miRNA) expression is of widespread interest given the
critical role of miRNAs in many cellular functions. Profiling can be achieved via
hybridization-based (microarrays), sequencing-based, or amplification-based
(quantitative reverse transcription-PCR, qPCR) technologies. Among these,
microarrays face the significant challenge of accurately distinguishing between
mature and immature miRNA forms, and different vendors have developed different
methods to meet this challenge. Here we measure differential miRNA expression
using the Affymetrix, Agilent, and Illumina microarray platforms, as well as qPCR
(Applied Biosystems) and ultra high-throughput sequencing (Illumina). We show
that the differential expression measurements are more divergent when the three
types of microarrays are compared than when the Agilent microarray, qPCR, and
sequencing technology measurements are compared, which exhibit a good overall
concordance.

DOI: 10.2144/000113367 
PMID: 20359303  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1368. Med Sci Monit. 2010 Apr;16(4):RA85-91.

Advances in the research of fetal DNA in maternal plasma for noninvasive prenatal
diagnostics.

Vlková B(1), Szemes T, Minárik G, Turna J, Celec P.

Author information: 
(1)Geneton Inc., Bratislava, Slovakia.

Molecular analysis of fetal DNA present in the maternal circulation allows
noninvasive, early, and precise determination of fetal genetic status in prenatal
diagnostics. The most common clinical applications, i.e. prenatal gender
determination and fetal RhD genotyping, are possible already in the first
trimester using specialized protocols for DNA isolation from plasma and
subsequent real-time PCR detection. Recent advances in molecular techniques
enable other applications of fetal DNA purified from maternal plasma samples.
Chromosomal abnormalities (e.g. trisomy 21) can be diagnosed by digital PCR,
which offers higher accuracy in quantifying DNA sequences than standard real-time
PCR. Digital PCR, but also MALDI-TOF, are suitable for detecting point mutations,
widening the spectrum of applications to monogenic diseases. The ongoing lowering
of costs for massively parallel sequencing might lead to replacement of most of
the other currently used approaches. Adopting specialized protocols for the
purification of fragmented circulating fetal DNA and improving the bioinformatic 
analysis of raw data can bring us closer to sequencing the fetal genome as the
ultimate goal of prenatal DNA diagnostics, with wide-ranging medical
applications. The discussion and solution of ethical issues beyond early fetal
gender or paternity determination is hanging just behind the rapid technical
progress of noninvasive prenatal DNA diagnostics.


PMID: 20357733  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1369. Chin J Cancer. 2010 Apr;29(4):441-6.

The diagnostic value of urine-based survivin mRNA test using reverse
transcription-polymerase chain reaction for bladder cancer: a systematic review.

Xia Y(1), Liu YL, Yang KH, Chen W.

Author information: 
(1)Evidence Based Medicine Center, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, Gansu 730000, PR 
China.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Survivin has gradually become an important target in
diagnosis, prognosis prediction and treatment of tumor. There are many studies on
urine-based survivin mRNA test using reverse transcription-polymerase chain
reaction (RT-PCR) as a noninvasive examination for bladder cancer. However, its
clinical value remains controversial. This study was to evaluate the diagnostic
value of urine survivin mRNA detection with RT-PCR for bladder cancer by a
systematic review of related studies.
METHODS: With the search terms such as bladder neoplasm, survivin, RT-PCR,
sensitivity, specificity and diagnosis, we systematically searched through
PubMed, EMBASE, SCI, Cochrane Library, Chinese Biomedical Literature Database
(CBM), Chinese Scientific Journal Full-text Database (CSJD), China Journal
Full-text Database (CJFD), Chinese Medical Association (CMA) digital periodicals 
and Google Scholar totally from January 1997 to April 2009 for diagnostic trials 
with RT-PCR detection of urine survivin mRNA for bladder cancer. The Quality
Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies (QUADAS) items were used to evaluate
the quality of the included studies. Meta-disc software was used to calculate
outcome indicators.
RESULTS: Twenty-six studies, totally 2 416 patients, were eligible. Meta-analysis
showed that compared with pathologic examination, the summary values of
sensitivity, specificity, positive likelihood ratio, negative likelihood ratio
and summary receiver operating characteristic curve (SROC) of urine-based
survivin mRNA test using RT-PCR for bladder cancer were 88%, 94%, 14.56, 0.13 and
0.9736, respectively. Nested RT-PCR got the highest sensitivity, specificity and 
SROC and the values were 91%, 95% and 0.9805, respectively. The sensitivity and
specificity of general RT-PCR were the second highest, which were 87% and 94%,
respectively. The sensitivity of quantitative RT-PCR was 80% and the specificity 
was 93%.
CONCLUSIONS: Comparing with pathologic examination, the sensitivity and
specificity of urine-based survivin mRNA test using RT-PCR are relatively high.
It can be used as an important adjunct method for cystoscope in early screening
and postoperative monitoring of bladder cancer.


PMID: 20346223  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1370. Head Neck. 2011 Aug;33(8):1233-40. doi: 10.1002/hed.21384. Epub 2010 Mar 22.

Novel germline SDHD deletion associated with an unusual sympathetic head and neck
paraganglioma.

Cadiñanos J(1), Llorente JL, de la Rosa J, Villameytide JA, Illán R, Durán NS,
Murias E, Cabanillas R.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Medicina Oncológica y Molecular de Asturias, Asturias, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Paragangliomas (PGLs) are rare tumors arising either from sympathetic
or parasympathetic-associated chromaffin tissue. PGLs can occur either
sporadically or as part of a hereditary syndrome. Sympathetic head and neck PGLs 
are extremely rare tumors and only a few cases have been reported to date.
METHODS: We report the pedigree of a patient with a head and neck PGL arising
from the right sympathetic trunk. SDHD mutation analysis was performed using
standard sequencing, multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification, chromosome
11-specific comparative genome hybridization, and long-range/short-range
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) approaches.
RESULTS: A previously unreported chromosome 11q deletion encompassing 5 annotated
genes (SDHD, DLAT, PIH1D2, C11Orf57, and TIMM8B) was detected in the proband.
CONCLUSION: PGL families considered "mutation-negative" may be attributable to
large gene deletions not detectable by standard sequencing methods. Therefore,
deletion analysis should be offered to families or individuals at risk for
hereditary PGLs.

Copyright © 2010 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hed.21384 
PMID: 20310044  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1371. Clin Chem. 2010 Apr;56(4):623-32. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2009.134973. Epub 2010
Mar 5.

Quantifying EGFR alterations in the lung cancer genome with nanofluidic digital
PCR arrays.

Wang J(1), Ramakrishnan R, Tang Z, Fan W, Kluge A, Dowlati A, Jones RC, Ma PC.

Author information: 
(1)Fluidigm Corporation, South San Francisco, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: The EGFR [epidermal growth factor receptor (erythroblastic leukemia
viral (v-erb-b) oncogene homolog, avian)] gene is known to harbor genomic
alterations in advanced lung cancer involving gene amplification and kinase
mutations that predict the clinical response to EGFR-targeted inhibitors. Methods
for detecting such molecular changes in lung cancer tumors are desirable.
METHODS: We used a nanofluidic digital PCR array platform and 16 cell lines and
20 samples of genomic DNA from resected tumors (stages I-III) to quantify the
relative numbers of copies of the EGFR gene and to detect mutated EGFR alleles in
lung cancer. We assessed the relative number of EGFR gene copies by calculating
the ratio of the number of EGFR molecules (measured with a
6-carboxyfluorescein-labeled Scorpion assay) to the number of molecules of the
single-copy gene RPP30 (ribonuclease P/MRP 30kDa subunit) (measured with a
6-carboxy-X-rhodamine-labeled TaqMan assay) in each panel. To assay for the EGFR 
L858R (exon 21) mutation and exon 19 in-frame deletions, we used the ARMS and
Scorpion technologies in a DxS/Qiagen EGFR29 Mutation Test Kit for the digital
PCR array.
RESULTS: The digital array detected and quantified rare
gefitinib/erlotinib-sensitizing EGFR mutations (0.02%-9.26% abundance) that were 
present in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded samples of early-stage resectable
lung tumors without an associated increase in gene copy number. Our results also 
demonstrated the presence of intratumor molecular heterogeneity for the
clinically relevant EGFR mutated alleles in these early-stage lung tumors.
CONCLUSIONS: The digital PCR array platform allows characterization and
quantification of oncogenes, such as EGFR, at the single-molecule level. Use of
this nanofluidics platform may provide deeper insight into the specific roles of 
clinically relevant kinase mutations during different stages of lung tumor
progression and may be useful in predicting the clinical response to
EGFR-targeted inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2009.134973 
PMID: 20207772  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1372. Nat Protoc. 2010 Mar;5(3):516-35. doi: 10.1038/nprot.2009.236. Epub 2010 Feb 25.

RNA-Seq analysis to capture the transcriptome landscape of a single cell.

Tang F(1), Barbacioru C, Nordman E, Li B, Xu N, Bashkirov VI, Lao K, Surani MA.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust/Cancer Research UK Gurdon Institute of Cancer and Developmental
Biology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.

We describe here a protocol for digital transcriptome analysis in a single mouse 
oocyte and blastomere using a deep-sequencing approach. In this method,
individual cells are isolated and transferred into lysate buffer by mouth
pipette, followed by reverse transcription carried out directly on the whole cell
lysate. Free primers are removed by exonuclease I and a poly(A) tail is added to 
the 3' end of the first-strand cDNAs by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase.
Single-cell cDNAs are then amplified by 20 + 9 cycles of PCR. The resulting
100-200 ng of amplified cDNAs are used to construct a sequencing library, which
can be used for deep sequencing using the SOLiD system. Compared with cDNA
microarray techniques, our assay can capture up to 75% more genes expressed in
early embryos. This protocol can generate deep-sequencing libraries for 16
single-cell samples within 6 d.

DOI: 10.1038/nprot.2009.236 
PMCID: PMC3847604
PMID: 20203668  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1373. Anal Chem. 2010 Apr 15;82(8):3183-90. doi: 10.1021/ac902683t.

High-performance single cell genetic analysis using microfluidic emulsion
generator arrays.

Zeng Y(1), Novak R, Shuga J, Smith MT, Mathies RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720,
USA.

High-throughput genetic and phenotypic analysis at the single cell level is
critical to advance our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying
cellular function and dysfunction. Here we describe a high-performance single
cell genetic analysis (SCGA) technique that combines high-throughput microfluidic
emulsion generation with single cell multiplex polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
Microfabricated emulsion generator array (MEGA) devices containing 4, 32, and 96 
channels are developed to confer a flexible capability of generating up to 3.4 x 
10(6) nanoliter-volume droplets per hour. Hybrid glass-polydimethylsiloxane
diaphragm micropumps integrated into the MEGA chips afford uniform droplet
formation, controlled generation frequency, and effective transportation and
encapsulation of primer functionalized microbeads and cells. A multiplex single
cell PCR method is developed to detect and quantify both wild type and
mutant/pathogenic cells. In this method, microbeads functionalized with multiple 
forward primers targeting specific genes from different cell types are used for
solid-phase PCR in droplets. Following PCR, the droplets are lysed and the beads 
are pooled and rapidly analyzed by multicolor flow cytometry. Using Escherichia
coli bacterial cells as a model, we show that this technique enables digital
detection of pathogenic E. coli O157 cells in a high background of normal K12
cells, with a detection limit on the order of 1/10(5). This result demonstrates
that multiplex SCGA is a promising tool for high-throughput quantitative digital 
analysis of genetic variation in complex populations.

DOI: 10.1021/ac902683t 
PMCID: PMC2859697
PMID: 20192178  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1374. Anal Chem. 2010 Mar 15;82(6):2310-6. doi: 10.1021/ac902510u.

Multiplexed real-time polymerase chain reaction on a digital microfluidic
platform.

Hua Z(1), Rouse JL, Eckhardt AE, Srinivasan V, Pamula VK, Schell WA, Benton JL,
Mitchell TG, Pollack MG.

Author information: 
(1)Advanced Liquid Logic Incorporated, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina,
USA.

This paper details the development of a digital microfluidic platform for
multiplexed real-time polymerase chain reactions (PCR). Liquid samples in
discrete droplet format are programmably manipulated upon an electrode array by
the use of electrowetting. Rapid PCR thermocycling is performed in a closed-loop 
flow-through format where for each cycle the reaction droplets are cyclically
transported between different temperature zones within an oil-filled cartridge.
The cartridge is fabricated using low-cost printed-circuit-board technology and
is intended to be a single-use disposable device. The PCR system exhibited
remarkable amplification efficiency of 94.7%. To test its potential application
in infectious diseases, this novel PCR system reliably detected diagnostic DNA
levels of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Mycoplasma
pneumoniae , and Candida albicans . Amplification of genomic DNA samples was
consistently repeatable across multiple PCR loops both within and between
cartridges. In addition, simultaneous real-time PCR amplification of both
multiple different samples and multiple different targets on a single cartridge
was demonstrated. A novel method of PCR speed optimization using variable cycle
times has also been proposed and proven feasible. The versatile system includes
magnetic bead handling capability, which was applied to the analysis of simulated
clinical samples that were prepared from whole blood using a magnetic bead
capture protocol. Other salient features of this versatile digital microfluidic
PCR system are also discussed, including the configurability and scalability of
microfluidic operations, instrument portability, and substrate-level integration 
with other pre- and post-PCR processes.

DOI: 10.1021/ac902510u 
PMCID: PMC2859674
PMID: 20151681  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1375. Curr Eye Res. 2010 Feb;35(2):108-15. doi: 10.3109/02713680903429007.

Effect of subconjunctival and intraocular bevacizumab injections on corneal
neovascularization in a mouse model.

Avisar I(1), Weinberger D, Kremer I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Rabin Medical Center, Petah Tiqwa and Sackler
Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
avisar.inbal@gmail.com

PURPOSE: This study sought to evaluate the efficacy of bevacizumab (Avastin), an 
anti-VEGF agent, in the reduction of corneal neovascularization in a rodent
model, and compare between the effect of intraocular and subconjunctival
injection.
METHODS: Corneal neovascularization was induced by application of a mixture of
75% silver nitrate and 25% potassium nitrate to the corneal center of the right
eye of 125 mice. Immediately thereafter, 75 eyes were treated with
subconjunctival, anterior chamber, or intravitreal injection of bevacizumab. The 
remaining mice served as a control. The groups were compared at different
postoperative time points for percentage area of neovascularization evaluated by 
digital photos, the presence of corneal stromal vascular endothelial cells
studied by immunohistochemical staining, and VEGF levels measured by real-time
PCR.
RESULTS: In the untreated eyes, percentage area of neovascularization increased
from 11.3 +/- 7% on day 2 to 20 +/- 8.9% on day 4, 47 +/- 25.4% on day 8, and 51 
+/- 24.7% on day 10. The percentage area of neovascularization following
subconjunctival injection was 7 +/- 2.9% on day 2, 15.7 +/- 6% on day 4, 32.2 +/-
15.2% on day 8, and 39.7 +/- 14.5% on day 10. The percentage area of
neovascularization following anterior chamber injection was 14.4 +/- 3% on day 2,
16.5 +/- 6.3% on day 4, 26.3 +/- 6.5% on day 8, and 19.8 +/- 1.2% on day 10. The 
percentage area of neovascularization following intravitreal injection was 11 +/-
2.5% on day 2, 14.7 +/- 5% on day 4, 23.5 +/- 6.5% on day 8, and 24.2 +/- 14.9%
on day 10.
CONCLUSIONS: Bevacizumab injections partially inhibit the growth of corneal
neovascularization induced by acute chemical injury in a mouse model. The
intraocular routes of injection were found to be the most effective, and the
subconjunctival route of injection yielded the earliest peak response.

DOI: 10.3109/02713680903429007 
PMID: 20136420  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1376. Electrophoresis. 2010 Jan;31(3):528-34. doi: 10.1002/elps.200900362.

Digital quantification of gene expression using emulsion PCR.

Shi X(1), Tang C, Wang W, Zhou D, Lu Z.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bioelectronics, Southeast University, Nanjing, PR
China.

Here we describe a single-molecule quantitative assay of mRNA levels based on
mRNA mediate-ligation and BEAMing (beads, emulsion, amplification, and magnetics)
technique, which allows accurate and parallel measurement of multiple genes from 
a small amount of cells. In this method, a pair of oligos complementary target
mRNA was used to probe transcripts for each gene of interest. The ligated
products of oligos pair were clonally amplified on beads in millions of parallel 
compartmentalized droplets in a water-in-oil emulsion. The levels of each
transcript within a sample were measured by counting the number of the
correspondingly amplified beads which were immobilized on a glass surface. To
demonstrate its utility, this method has been applied to the quantitation of the 
mRNA levels for two transcription factors, Klf4 and Sox5, and a housekeeping
gene, Gapdh, in human leukemia K562 cells before and after induction with phorbol
12-myristate 13-acetate. Interestingly, we found a significant downregulation of 
the mRNA level of Sox5 after phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate treatment. The mRNA 
mediate-ligation and BEAMing technique provides an accurate and sensitive way to 
quantify the amount of multiple specific mRNA in a very small number of cells,
which may be valuable in the studies requiring precise and parallel quantization 
of multiple mRNA in the defined cell populations.

DOI: 10.1002/elps.200900362 
PMID: 20119960  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1377. Am J Vet Res. 2010 Feb;71(2):211-5. doi: 10.2460/ajvr.71.2.211.

Molecular and histologic evaluation of idiopathic hyperextension of the
metacarpophalangeal and metatarsophalangeal joints in adult llamas.

Reed SK(1), Semevolos SA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, Oregon State 
University, Corvallis, OR 97331, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the molecular and histologic characteristics of
hyperextension of the metacarpophalangeal and metatarsophalangeal joints in adult
llamas.
ANIMALS: 12 adult llamas (6 with bilateral hyperextension of the
metacarpophalangeal or metatarsophalangeal joints [affected] and 6 age- and
sex-matched clinically normal control llamas).
PROCEDURES: Llamas were euthanized, and specimens of superficial digital flexor
tendon, deep digital flexor tendon, and suspensory ligament were obtained from 4 
areas and snap frozen in liquid nitrogen or suspended in neutral-buffered 10%
formalin. Histologic evaluation of collagen fiber orientation, elastin content,
and proteoglycan content was performed by use of Masson trichrome, picrosirius
red, Verhoeff, and Alcian blue stains. Total RNA was isolated from frozen
suspensory ligament specimens. Gene expression of collagen types I and III, lysyl
oxidase, and matrix metalloproteinase-13 was evaluated with a real-time
quantitative reverse transcriptase PCR assay.
RESULTS: Gene expression of collagen types I and III, lysyl oxidase, and matrix
metalloproteinase-13 in suspensory ligaments was similar between affected and
control llamas. Collagen orientation and elastin content of the flexor tendons
and suspensory ligaments were also similar between the groups. Proteoglycan
content was low in most specimens but was focally increased in discrete lesions
of suspensory ligaments in 2 affected and 2 control llamas.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Hyperextension of the metacarpophalangeal or 
metatarsophalangeal joints in llamas did not appear to be caused by degeneration 
or inflammation of the suspensory ligament. Although focal proteoglycan
accumulation existed in the suspensory ligaments of 2 affected llamas, widespread
abnormal connective tissue proteoglycan accumulation was not found.

DOI: 10.2460/ajvr.71.2.211 
PMID: 20113229  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1378. J Orthop Res. 2010 Jul;28(7):965-70. doi: 10.1002/jor.21089.

Gene expression profiling from leukocytes of horses affected by osteochondrosis.

Serteyn D(1), Piquemal D, Vanderheyden L, Lejeune JP, Verwilghen D, Sandersen C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of
Liege, The Equine Clinic, B41, 4000 Sart Timan, Belgium. didier.serteyn@ulg.ac.be

Osteochondrosis (OC) is a developmental disease that affects growing horses and
that severely affects their ability to perform. The genetic basis of its
pathogenesis is poorly understood. The aim of the study was to analyze the
transcript profile of leukocytes from horses affected with OC. Two transcriptome 
libraries were constructed from leukocytes of OC-affected and non-OC-affected
horses using digital gene expression analysis (DGE) and real-time PCR.
Statistical analysis allowed selection of 1,008 tags upregulated in the
non-OC-affected group and 1,545 tags upregulated in the OC-affected group. Among 
these genes, 16 regulated genes and 5 housekeeping genes were selected. Metabolic
pathways analysis showed an obvious dysregulation of several signaling pathways
related to cartilage formation or cartilage repair, including Wnt, Indian
hedgehog, and TGF-beta signaling. Other genes, including ISG, ApoB, MGAT4, and
TBC1D9, showed a significantly different expression between groups. These genes
may play a role in high carbohydrate diet, abnormal insulin metabolism, or
inflammation, mechanisms suspected to be involved in OC. This DGE analysis of the
transcript profile of leukocytes from OC-affected horses demonstrated significant
differences in comparison to the control library. These results open new
perspectives for the understanding of equine OC.

(c) 2010 Orthopaedic Research Society. Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jor.21089 
PMID: 20108324  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1379. Dis Esophagus. 2010 Jul;23(5):430-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1442-2050.2009.01034.x. Epub 
2010 Jan 15.

Gastroduodenal reflux induces group IIa secretory phospholipase A(2) expression
and activity in murine esophagus.

Mauchley D(1), Meng X, Babu A, Gamboni-Robertson F, Yang X, Banerjee A, Fullerton
DA, Weyant MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, University of
Colorado at Denver and Health Sciences Center, Denver, Colorado, USA.

Exposure of esophageal epithelium to gastric and duodenal contents results in the
histologic changes of hyperproliferation and mucosal thickening. We have
previously shown that presence of secretory phospholipase A(2) (sPLA(2)) is
necessary to produce these histologic changes in a murine model of gastroduodenal
reflux. We sought to determine the influence of gastroduodenal reflux (GDR) on
sPLA(2) protein and mRNA levels as well as enzyme activity in esophageal tissue. 
BALB/c (sPLA(2)(+/+)) mice (n= 28) underwent side-to-side surgical anastomosis of
the first portion of the duodenum and GE junction (DGEA) resulting in continuous 
exposure of esophageal mucosa to mixed gastric and duodenal contents. Sham
control mice (n= 14) underwent laparotomy, esophagotomy and closure. Real-time RT
PCR was used to quantitate the influence of GDR on group IIa sPLA(2) expression. 
Immunofluorescent staining was quantitated by digital microscopy using a specific
antibody to identify and locate sPLA(2) protein. A colorimetric assay was used to
quantify total sPLA(2) activity after standardization of protein levels.
Statistical analysis was conducted using Student's t-test. Group IIa sPLA(2) mRNA
and protein levels were increased at 4 and 8 weeks compared with sham controls.
This increase occurred in a time-dependent manner and correlated with esophageal 
mucosal thickness. Furthermore, sPLA(2) enzyme activity was increased
significantly at 4 and 8 weeks compared with untreated controls. The expression
of group IIa sPLA(2) as well as sPLA(2) activity is induced by GDR. This novel
finding indicates that sPLA(2) may play a role in the development of the
histologic changes produced by GDR in esophageal mucosa.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-2050.2009.01034.x 
PMID: 20095996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1380. Anal Chem. 2010 Feb 15;82(4):1546-50. doi: 10.1021/ac902398c.

Spinning disk platform for microfluidic digital polymerase chain reaction.

Sundberg SO(1), Wittwer CT, Gao C, Gale BK.

Author information: 
(1)University of Utah, Rm 5R441, 1795 E South Campus Dr., Salt Lake City, Utah
84112, USA. scott.sundberg@m.cc.utah.edu

An inexpensive plastic disk disposable was designed for digital polymerase chain 
reaction (PCR) applications with a microfluidic architecture that passively
compartmentalizes a sample into 1000 nanoliter-sized wells by centrifugation.
Well volumes of 33 nL were attained with a 16% volume coefficient of variation
(CV). A rapid air thermocycler with aggregate real-time fluorescence detection
was used, achieving PCR cycle times of 33 s and 94% PCR efficiency, with a
melting curve to validate product specificity. A CCD camera acquired a
fluorescent image of the disk following PCR, and the well intensity frequency
distribution and Poisson distribution statistics were used to count the positive 
wells on the disk to determine the number of template molecules amplified. A 300 
bp plasmid DNA product was amplified within the disk and analyzed in 50 min with 
58-1000 wells containing plasmid template. Target concentrations measured by the 
spinning disk platform were 3 times less than that predicted by absorbance
measurements. The spinning disk platform reduces disposable cost, instrument
complexity, and thermocycling time compared to other current digital PCR
platforms.

DOI: 10.1021/ac902398c 
PMID: 20085301  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1381. Methods. 2010 Apr;50(4):271-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ymeth.2010.01.003. Epub 2010 Jan
15.

Taking qPCR to a higher level: Analysis of CNV reveals the power of high
throughput qPCR to enhance quantitative resolution.

Weaver S(1), Dube S, Mir A, Qin J, Sun G, Ramakrishnan R, Jones RC, Livak KJ.

Author information: 
(1)Fluidigm Corporation, 7000 Shoreline Court, Suite 100, South San Francisco, CA
94080, USA.

This paper assesses the quantitative resolution of qPCR using copy number
variation (CNV) as a paradigm. An error model is developed for real-time qPCR
data showing how the precision of CNV determination varies with the number of
replicates. Using samples with varying numbers of X chromosomes, experimental
data demonstrates that real-time qPCR can readily distinguish four copes from
five copies, which corresponds to a 1.25-fold difference in relative quantity.
Digital PCR is considered as an alternative form of qPCR. For digital PCR, an
error model is shown that relates the precision of CNV determination to the
number of reaction chambers. The quantitative capability of digital PCR is
illustrated with an experiment distinguishing four and five copies of the human
gene MRGPRX1. For either real-time qPCR or digital PCR, practical application of 
these models to achieve enhanced quantitative resolution requires use of a high
throughput PCR platform that can simultaneously perform thousands of reactions.
Comparing the two methods, real-time qPCR has the advantage of throughput and
digital PCR has the advantage of simplicity in terms of the assumptions made for 
data analysis.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymeth.2010.01.003 
PMID: 20079846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1382. Neoplasia. 2010 Jan;12(1):20-7.

Genetic and epigenetic inactivation of Kruppel-like factor 4 in medulloblastoma.

Nakahara Y(1), Northcott PA, Li M, Kongkham PN, Smith C, Yan H, Croul S, Ra YS,
Eberhart C, Huang A, Bigner D, Grajkowska W, Van Meter T, Rutka JT, Taylor MD.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neurosurgery, Arthur and Sonia Labatt Brain Tumor Research Centre,
Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Although medulloblastoma is the most common pediatric malignant brain tumor, its 
molecular underpinnings are largely unknown. We have identified rare, recurrent
homozygous deletions of Kruppel-like Factor 4 (KLF4) in medulloblastoma using
high-resolution single nucleotide polymorphism arrays, digital karyotyping, and
genomic real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Furthermore, we show that
there is loss of physiological KLF4 expression in more than 40% of primary
medulloblastomas both at the RNA and protein levels. Medulloblastoma cell lines
drastically increase the expression of KLF4 in response to the demethylating
agent 5-azacytidine and demonstrate dense methylation of the promoter CpG island 
by bisulfite sequencing. Methylation-specific PCR targeting the KLF4 promoter
demonstrates CpG methylation in approximately 16% of primary medulloblastomas.
Reexpression of KLF4 in the D283 medulloblastoma cell line results in significant
growth suppression both in vitro and in vivo. We conclude that KLF4 is
inactivated by either genetic or epigenetic mechanisms in a large subset of
medulloblastomas and that it likely functions as a tumor suppressor gene in the
pathogenesis of medulloblastoma.


PMCID: PMC2805880
PMID: 20072650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1383. Ann Acad Med Singapore. 2009 Dec;38(12):1041-7.

Tumour interstitial fluid pressure may regulate angiogenic factors in
osteosarcoma.

Nathan SS(1), Huvos AG, Casas-Ganem JE, Yang R, Linkov I, Sowers R, DiResta GR,
Gorlick R, Healey JH.

Author information: 
(1)Musculoskeletal Oncology Service, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Yong Loo 
Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore.
dosssn@nus.edu.sg

PURPOSE: We have previously shown that osteosarcomas have states of increased
interstitial fluid pressure (IFP) which correlate with increased proliferation
and chemosensitivity. In this study, we hypothesized that constitutively raised
IFP in osteosarcomas regulates angiogenesis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Sixteen patients with the clinical diagnosis of
osteosarcomas underwent blood fl ow and IFP readings by the wick-in-needle method
at the time and location of open biopsy. Vascularity was determined by capillary 
density in the biopsy specimens. We performed digital image analysis of
immunohistochemical staining for CD31, VEGF-A, VEGF-C and TPA on
paraffin-embedded tissue blocks of the biopsy samples. Clinical results were
validated in a pressurised cell culture system.
RESULTS: IFPs in the tumours (mean 33.5 +/- SD 17.2 mmHg) were significantly
higher (P = 0.00001) than that in normal tissue (2.9 +/- 5.7 mmHg). Pressure
readings were significantly higher in low vascularity tumours compared to high
vascularity tumours (P <0.001). In the osteosarcoma cell lines, growth in a
pressurised environment was associated with VEGF-A downregulation, VEGF-C
upregulation and TPA upregulation. The reverse was seen in the OB cell lines.
Growth in the HUVEC cell line was not significantly inhibited in a pressurised
environment. Immunohistochemical assessment for VEGF-A (P = 0.01), VEGF-C (P =
0.008) and TPA (P = 0.0001) translation were consistent with the findings on PCR.
CONCLUSION: Our data suggest that some molecules in angiogenesis are regulated by
changes in IFP.


PMID: 20052438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1384. Am J Vet Res. 2010 Jan;71(1):103-14. doi: 10.2460/ajvr.71.1.103.

Evaluation of early cellular influences of bone morphogenetic proteins 12 and 2
on equine superficial digital flexor tenocytes and bone marrow-derived
mesenchymal stem cells in vitro.

Murray SJ(1), Santangelo KS, Bertone AL.

Author information: 
(1)Comparative Orthopedic Molecular Medicine and Applied Research Laboratory,
College of Veterinary Medicine, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210,
USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate early cellular influences of bone morphogenetic protein
(BMP)12 and BMP2 on equine superficial digital flexor tenocytes (SDFTNs) and
equine bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BMDMSCs).
ANIMALS: 9 adult clinically normal horses.
PROCEDURES: BMDMSCs and SDFTNs were cultured in monolayer, either untreated or
transduced with adenovirus encoding green fluorescent protein, adenovirus
encoding BMP12, or adenovirus encoding BMP2. Cytomorphologic, cytochemical,
immunocytochemical, and reverse transcriptase-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) analyses
were performed on days 3 and 6. Genetic profiling for effects of BMP12 was
evaluated by use of an equine gene expression microarray on day 6.
RESULTS: BMDMSCs and SDFTNs had high BMP12 gene expression and remained viable
and healthy for at least 6 days. Type l collagen immunocytochemical staining for 
SDFTNs and tenocyte-like morphology for SDFTNs and BMDMSCs were greatest in BMP12
cells. Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein, as determined via RT-qPCR assay, and 
chondroitin sulfate, as determined via gene expression microarray analysis, were 
upregulated relative to control groups in SDFTN-BMP12 cells. The BMDMSCs and
SDFTNs became mineralized with BMP2, but not BMP12. Superficial digital flexor
tenocytes responded to BMP12 with upregulation of genes relevant to tendon
healing and without mineralization as seen with BMP2.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Targeted equine SDFTNs may respond to BMP12
with improved tenocyte morphology and without mineralization, as seen with BMP2. 
Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells may be able to serve as a cell
delivery method for BMP12.

DOI: 10.2460/ajvr.71.1.103 
PMCID: PMC4246500
PMID: 20043789  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1385. Vet Microbiol. 2010 Jul 14;143(2-4):352-62. doi: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2009.12.009.
Epub 2009 Dec 24.

Identification of candidate pathogens of papillomatous digital dermatitis in
dairy cattle from quantitative 16S rRNA clonal analysis.

Yano T(1), Moe KK, Yamazaki K, Ooka T, Hayashi T, Misawa N.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Veterinary Public Health, Department of Veterinary Science,
Faculty of Agriculture, University of Miyazaki, 1-1 Gakuenkibanadai-nishi,
Miyazaki 889-2192, Japan.

Although it is suspected that papillomatous digital dermatitis (PDD), an
infectious foot disease of cattle, is caused by multiple bacteria, it remains
unclear precisely which ones are involved in the etiology. To study the bacterial
community, we used 16S rRNA gene sequencing of randomly selected clones based on 
PCR with minimum amplification cycles to search for organisms present in PDD
lesions but not in healthy foot skin. The nucleotide sequences of 1525 clones
from 5 PDD lesions (836 clones) and 4 samples of healthy foot skin (689 clones)
were determined and grouped into 316 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) with a
cut-off value of >99% sequence identity. Two OTUs, P-01 (143 clones; 100%
nucleotide sequence identity with Treponema phagedenis) and P-02 (112 clones; 86%
identity with Bacteroidetes), were detected most frequently in all PDD samples
examined. In contrast, OTU N-01 (87 clones), showing 99% nucleotide sequence
identity with Moraxella phenylpyruvica, was the most prevalent in the normal
samples examined. Spirochaetes were detected in only 1 sample. Phylogenetic
analysis showed that T. denticola-like and T. phagedenis-like spirochetes were
the predominant groups in the PDD lesions. Detection of multiple treponemes and
an unknown bacterium close to Bacteroides sp. at high rates by a
culture-independent approach could be evidence of the association of these
organisms with PDD.

(c) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2009.12.009 
PMID: 20036086  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1386. Zhonghua Yi Xue Yi Chuan Xue Za Zhi. 2009 Aug;26(4):410-3.

[Noninvasive prenatal diagnosis of single gene disorders through cell-free fetal 
DNA in maternal blood].

[Article in Chinese]

Guo QW(1), Zhou YL.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory, Center for Prenatal Diagnosis, Maternal and
Children's Health Hospital of Xiamen, Xiamen, Fujian, 361003 P.R. China.

The discovery of cell-free fetal DNA (cff-DNA) in maternal plasma offered a new
way to noninvasive prenatal diagnosis for single gene disorders. In the past
decade, many techniques such as real-time PCR, pyrophosphorolysis-activated
polymerization, mass spectrum and digital PCR have been developed for noninvasive
prenatal diagnosis. In this review, the author discuss the principles,
applications, advantages and disadvantages of these techniques.


PMID: 20017305  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1387. Respir Res. 2009 Dec 11;10:123. doi: 10.1186/1465-9921-10-123.

Inhibition of SOC/Ca2+/NFAT pathway is involved in the anti-proliferative effect 
of sildenafil on pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells.

Wang C(1), Li JF, Zhao L, Liu J, Wan J, Wang YX, Wang J, Wang C.

Author information: 
(1)Beijing Institute of Respiratory Medicine, Beijing Chao-Yang Hospital, Capital
Medical University, Beijing, PR China.

BACKGROUND: Sildenafil, a potent phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) inhibitor, has
been proposed as a treatment for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). The
mechanism of its anti-proliferative effect on pulmonary artery smooth muscle
cells (PASMC) is unclear. Nuclear translocation of nuclear factor of activated
T-cells (NFAT) is thought to be involved in PASMC proliferation and PAH. Increase
in cytosolic free [Ca2+] ([Ca2+]i) is a prerequisite for NFAT nuclear
translocation. Elevated [Ca2+]i in PASMC of PAH patients has been demonstrated
through up-regulation of store-operated Ca2+ channels (SOC) which is encoded by
the transient receptor potential (TRP) channel protein. Thus we investigated if: 
1) up-regulation of TRPC1 channel expression which induces enhancement of
SOC-mediated Ca2+ influx and increase in [Ca2+]i is involved in hypoxia-induced
PASMC proliferation; 2) hypoxia-induced promotion of [Ca2+]i leads to nuclear
translocation of NFAT and regulates PASMC proliferation and TRPC1 expression; 3) 
the anti-proliferative effect of sildenafil is mediated by inhibition of this
SOC/Ca2+/NFAT pathway.
METHODS: Human PASMC were cultured under hypoxia (3% O2) with or without
sildenafil treatment for 72 h. Cell number and cell viability were determined
with a hemocytometer and MTT assay respectively. [Ca2+]i was measured with a
dynamic digital Ca2+ imaging system by loading PASMC with fura 2-AM. TRPC1 mRNA
and protein level were detected by RT-PCR and Western blotting respectively.
Nuclear translocation of NFAT was determined by immunofluoresence microscopy.
RESULTS: Hypoxia induced PASMC proliferation with increases in basal [Ca2+]i and 
Ca2+ entry via SOC (SOCE). These were accompanied by up-regulation of TRPC1 gene 
and protein expression in PASMC. NFAT nuclear translocation was significantly
enhanced by hypoxia, which was dependent on SOCE and sensitive to SOC inhibitor
SKF96365 (SKF), as well as cGMP analogue, 8-brom-cGMP. Hypoxia-induced PASMC
proliferation and TRPC1 up-regulation were inhibited by SKF and NFAT blocker
(VIVIT and Cyclosporin A). Sildenafil treatment ameliorated hypoxia-induced PASMC
proliferation and attenuated hypoxia-induced enhancement of basal [Ca2+]i, SOCE, 
up-regulation of TRPC1 expression, and NFAT nuclear translocation.
CONCLUSION: The SOC/Ca2+/NFAT pathway is, at least in part, a downstream mediator
for the anti-proliferative effect of sildenafil, and may have therapeutic
potential for PAH treatment.

DOI: 10.1186/1465-9921-10-123 
PMCID: PMC2797778
PMID: 20003325  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1388. J Vet Med Sci. 2010 Feb;72(2):235-9. Epub 2009 Nov 27.

Detection of treponemes in canker lesions of horses by 16S rRNA clonal sequencing
analysis.

Moe KK(1), Yano T, Kuwano A, Sasaki S, Misawa N.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Veterinary Public Health, Department of Veterinary Science,
Faculty of Agriculture, University of Miyazaki, 1-1 Gakuenkibanadai-nishi,
Miyazaki 889-2192, USA.

Equine canker is a chronic pododermatitis of the hoof in horses. Although
spirochetes are detectable histopathologically in the lesions, the precise
etiology remains unclear. This study reports the 16S rRNA gene sequencing of
randomly selected clones based on PCR with Treponema-specific primers, using the 
canker lesions from two horses and healthy frog and sole from a horse. A total of
114 clones were obtained from the lesions, but no clones were detected in the
healthy hoof tissues. The clones from the canker lesions examined were grouped
into 19 operational taxonomic units, such as treponemal phylotypes originating
from papillomatous digital dermatitis lesions of dairy cattle and as-yet
uncultured human oral treponemes, indicating the presence of multiple treponemes 
in the lesions.


PMID: 19942809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1389. J Pathol. 2010 Jan;220(2):297-306. doi: 10.1002/path.2647.

Single-molecule genomics.

McCaughan F(1), Dear PH.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 2QH, UK.
frankmc@mrc-lmb.cam.ac.uk

The term 'single-molecule genomics' (SMG) describes a group of molecular methods 
in which single molecules are detected or sequenced. The focus on the analysis of
individual molecules distinguishes these techniques from more traditional
methods, in which template DNA is cloned or PCR-amplified prior to analysis.
Although technically challenging, the analysis of single molecules has the
potential to play a major role in the delivery of truly personalized medicine.
The two main subgroups of SMG methods are single-molecule digital PCR and
single-molecule sequencing. Single-molecule PCR has a number of advantages over
competing technologies, including improved detection of rare genetic variants and
more precise analysis of copy-number variation, and is more easily adapted to the
often small amount of material that is available in clinical samples.
Single-molecule sequencing refers to a number of different methods that are
mainly still in development but have the potential to make a huge impact on
personalized medicine in the future.

DOI: 10.1002/path.2647 
PMID: 19927313  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1390. BMC Genomics. 2009 Nov 16;10:531. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-10-531.

3' tag digital gene expression profiling of human brain and universal reference
RNA using Illumina Genome Analyzer.

Asmann YW(1), Klee EW, Thompson EA, Perez EA, Middha S, Oberg AL, Therneau TM,
Smith DI, Poland GA, Wieben ED, Kocher JP.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biomedical Statistics and Informatics, Department of Health
Sciences Research, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

BACKGROUND: Massive parallel sequencing has the potential to replace microarrays 
as the method for transcriptome profiling. Currently there are two protocols:
full-length RNA sequencing (RNA-SEQ) and 3'-tag digital gene expression (DGE). In
this preliminary effort, we evaluated the 3' DGE approach using two reference RNA
samples from the MicroArray Quality Control Consortium (MAQC).
RESULTS: Using Brain RNA sample from multiple runs, we demonstrated that the
transcript profiles from 3' DGE were highly reproducible between technical and
biological replicates from libraries constructed by the same lab and even by
different labs, and between two generations of Illumina's Genome Analyzers.
Approximately 65% of all sequence reads mapped to mitochondrial genes, ribosomal 
RNAs, and canonical transcripts. The expression profiles of brain RNA and
universal human reference RNA were compared which demonstrated that DGE was also 
highly quantitative with excellent correlation of differential expression with
quantitative real-time PCR. Furthermore, one lane of 3' DGE sequencing, using the
current sequencing chemistry and image processing software, had wider dynamic
range for transcriptome profiling and was able to detect lower expressed genes
which are normally below the detection threshold of microarrays.
CONCLUSION: 3' tag DGE profiling with massive parallel sequencing achieved high
sensitivity and reproducibility for transcriptome profiling. Although it lacks
the ability of detecting alternative splicing events compared to RNA-SEQ, it is
much more affordable and clearly out-performed microarrays (Affymetrix) in
detecting lower abundant transcripts.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-10-531 
PMCID: PMC2781828
PMID: 19917133  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1391. Clin Chem. 2010 Jan;56(1):73-81. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2009.132662. Epub 2009 Nov
5.

Synergy of total PLAC4 RNA concentration and measurement of the RNA
single-nucleotide polymorphism allelic ratio for the noninvasive prenatal
detection of trisomy 21.

Tsui NB(1), Akolekar R, Chiu RW, Chow KC, Leung TY, Lau TK, Nicolaides KH, Lo YM.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Chemical Pathology, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Centre
for Research into Circulating Fetal Nucleic Acids, Li Ka Shing Institute of
Health Sciences, New Territories, Hong Kong SAR, China.

BACKGROUND: Maternal plasma mRNA encoded by the PLAC4 gene (placenta-specific 4),
which is transcribed from chromosome 21 in placental cells, is a potential marker
for the noninvasive assessment of chromosome 21 dosage in the fetus. We evaluated
the diagnostic sensitivities and specificities of 2 trisomy 21-screening
approaches that use maternal plasma PLAC4 mRNA.
METHODS: We studied maternal plasma samples from 153 pregnant women carrying
euploid and trisomy 21 fetuses. For the samples in which the fetuses were
heterozygous for the studied PLAC4 single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), we
measured the ratio between 2 alleles of the SNP in maternal plasma PLAC4 mRNA
(RNA-SNP) by mass spectrometric (MS) and digital PCR methods. For pregnancies
involving fetuses homozygous for the SNP, we quantified the total PLAC4 mRNA
concentration in maternal plasma by real-time PCR and digital PCR.
RESULTS: For the RNA-SNP approach, we achieved a diagnostic sensitivity and
specificity of 100% (95% CI, 40.2%-100%) and 89.7% (95% CI, 78.8%-96.1%),
respectively, for both the MS and the digital PCR methods. For the
mRNA-quantification approach, the areas under the ROC curves were 0.859 (95% CI, 
0.741-0.903) and 0.833 (95% CI, 0.770-0.923) for plasma PLAC4 mRNA concentrations
measured by the real-time PCR and the digital PCR methods, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: For prenatal screening of trisomy 21, the quantification of the
total PLAC4 mRNA concentration can be used in a synergistic manner with the
RNA-SNP allelic ratio approach to increase the population coverage of cases in
which diagnostic information can be obtained.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2009.132662 
PMID: 19892844  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1392. Clin Chem. 2010 Jan;56(1):136-8. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2009.132951. Epub 2009 Nov
2.

Detection of increased amounts of cell-free fetal DNA with short PCR amplicons.

Sikora A(1), Zimmermann BG, Rusterholz C, Birri D, Kolla V, Lapaire O, Hoesli I, 
Kiefer V, Jackson L, Hahn S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedicine, University Women's Hospital, Basel, Switzerland.

AIM: A digital PCR approach has recently been suggested to detect greater amounts
of cell-free fetal DNA in maternal plasma than conventional real-time
quantitative PCR (qPCR). Because the digital qPCR approach uses shorter PCR
amplicons than the real-time qPCR assay, we investigated whether a real-time qPCR
assay appropriately modified for such short amplicons would improve the detection
of cell-free fetal DNA.
METHOD: We developed a novel universal-template (UT) real-time qPCR assay that
was specific for the DYS14 sequence on Y chromosome and had a short amplicon size
of 50 bp. We examined this "short" assay with 50 maternal plasma samples and
compared the results with those for a conventional real-time qPCR assay of the
same locus but with a longer amplicon (84 bp).
RESULTS: Qualitatively, both assays detected male cell-free fetal DNA with the
same specificity and detection capability. Quantitatively, however, the new UT
real-time qPCR assay for shorter amplicons detected, on average, almost 1.6-fold 
more cell-free fetal DNA than the conventional real-time qPCR assay with longer
amplicons.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of short PCR amplicons improves the detection of cell-free
fetal DNA. This feature may prove useful in attempts to detect cell-free fetal
DNA under conditions in which the amount of template is low, such as in samples
obtained early in pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2009.132951 
PMID: 19884486  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1393. Clin Chem. 2010 Jan;56(1):90-8. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2009.134114. Epub 2009 Oct 
22.

Noninvasive prenatal detection of trisomy 21 by an epigenetic-genetic
chromosome-dosage approach.

Tong YK(1), Jin S, Chiu RW, Ding C, Chan KC, Leung TY, Yu L, Lau TK, Lo YM.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Research into Circulating Fetal Nucleic Acids, Li Ka Shing
Institute of Health Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Prince of
Wales Hospital, New Territories, Hong Kong SAR, China.

BACKGROUND: The use of fetal DNA in maternal plasma for noninvasive prenatal
diagnosis of trisomy 21 (T21) is an actively researched area. We propose a novel 
method of T21 detection that combines fetal-specific epigenetic and genetic
markers.
METHODS: We used combined bisulfite restriction analysis to search for fetal DNA 
markers on chromosome 21 that were differentially methylated in the placenta and 
maternal blood cells and confirmed any target locus with bisulfite sequencing. We
then used methylation-sensitive restriction endonuclease digestion followed by
microfluidics digital PCR analysis to investigate the identified marker.
Chromosome-dosage analysis was performed by comparing the dosage of this
epigenetic marker with that of the ZFY (zinc finger protein, Y-linked) gene on
chromosome Y.
RESULTS: The putative promoter of the HLCS (holocarboxylase synthetase) gene was 
hypermethylated in the placenta and hypomethylated in maternal blood cells. A
chromosome-dosage comparison of the hypermethylated HLCS and ZFY loci could
distinguish samples of T21 and euploid placental DNA. Twenty-four maternal plasma
samples from euploid pregnancies and 5 maternal plasma samples from T21
pregnancies were analyzed. All but 1 of the euploid samples were correctly
classified.
CONCLUSIONS: The epigenetic-genetic chromosome-dosage approach is a new method
for noninvasive prenatal detection of T21. The epigenetic part of the analysis
can be applied to all pregnancies. Because the genetic part of the analysis uses 
paternally inherited, fetal-specific genetic markers that are abundant in the
genome, broad population coverage should be readily achievable. This approach has
the potential to become a generally usable technique for noninvasive prenatal
diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2009.134114 
PMID: 19850629  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1394. Mamm Genome. 2009 Sep-Oct;20(9-10):664-73. doi: 10.1007/s00335-009-9227-0. Epub
2009 Oct 13.

Effect of IVF and laser zona dissection on DNA methylation pattern of mouse
zygotes.

Peters DD(1), Lepikhov K, Rodenacker K, Marschall S, Boersma A, Hutzler P, Scherb
H, Walter J, de Angelis MH.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Experimental Genetics, Helmholtz Zentrum München, German Research
Center for Environmental Health (GmbH), Ingolstädter Landstr. 1, 85764
Neuherberg, Germany.

In vitro fertilization (IVF) and zona pellucida laser microdissection-facilitated
IVF (Laser-IVF) are presently routine procedures in human assisted reproduction. 
The safety of these methods at the epigenetic level is not fully understood.
Studies on mouse Laser-IVF embryos provide evidence that the use of Laser-IVF
leads to reduced birth rate, indicating a potential harm of this technique for
the embryo. Hence, the aim of this study was to examine the difference in DNA
methylation pattern between IVF- and Laser-IVF-derived mouse zygotes. We examined
two experimental groups of C3HeB/FeJ oocytes: (1) zona-intact and (2)
laser-microdissected oocytes that were fertilized in vitro with freshly collected
spermatozoa. Zygotes were fixed 5, 8, and 12 h after fertilization, and indirect 
immunofluorescence staining was studied using an anti-5-methylcytidine (5-MeC)
antibody. The fluorescence intensities of paternal and maternal pronuclei were
evaluated using the computer-assisted analysis of digital images. In addition, we
performed a semiquantitative RT-PCR analysis of the presence of transcripts of
three developmental marker genes, Oct4, Dab2, and Dnmt3b, in IVF- and
Laser-IVF-derived blastocysts. We observed no significant differences in
methylation status of the paternal genome and in the transcripts of the
developmental marker genes after IVF and Laser-IVF. In conclusion, epigenetic
patterns and early embryonic development are not altered by laser-assisted IVF
techniques and another explanation must be sought for the poor implantation rates
observed in mice.

DOI: 10.1007/s00335-009-9227-0 
PMID: 19823912  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1395. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2010 Mar;396(6):2143-50. doi: 10.1007/s00216-009-3200-3. Epub 
2009 Oct 9.

Absolute quantification of genetically modified MON810 maize (Zea mays L.) by
digital polymerase chain reaction.

Corbisier P(1), Bhat S, Partis L, Xie VR, Emslie KR.

Author information: 
(1)European Commission, Joint Research Centre, Institute for Reference Materials 
and Measurements (IRMM), Retieseweg 111, 2440 Geel, Belgium.
philippe.corbisier@ec.europa.eu

Quantitative analysis of genetically modified (GM) foods requires estimation of
the amount of the transgenic event relative to an endogenous gene. Regulatory
authorities in the European Union (EU) have defined the labelling threshold for
GM food on the copy number ratio between the transgenic event and an endogenous
gene. Real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is currently being used for
quantification of GM organisms (GMOs). Limitations in real-time PCR applications 
to detect very low number of DNA targets has led to new developments such as the 
digital PCR (dPCR) which allows accurate measurement of DNA copies without the
need for a reference calibrator. In this paper, the amount of maize MON810 and
hmg copies present in a DNA extract from seed powders certified for their mass
content and for their copy number ratio was measured by dPCR. The ratio of these 
absolute copy numbers determined by dPCR was found to be identical to the ratios 
measured by real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR) using a plasmid DNA calibrator.
These results indicate that both methods could be applied to determine the copy
number ratio in MON810. The reported values were in agreement with estimations
from a model elaborated to convert mass fractions into copy number fractions in
MON810 varieties. This model was challenged on two MON810 varieties used for the 
production of MON810 certified reference materials (CRMs) which differ in the
parental origin of the introduced GM trait. We conclude that dPCR has a high
metrological quality and can be used for certifying GM CRMs in terms of DNA copy 
number ratio.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-009-3200-3 
PMID: 19816678  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1396. Expert Rev Mol Diagn. 2009 Sep;9(6):613-21. doi: 10.1586/erm.09.43.

Noninvasive prenatal diagnosis of fetal aneuploidies and Mendelian disorders: new
innovative strategies.

Hahn S(1), Jackson LG, Kolla V, Mahyuddin AP, Choolani M.

Author information: 
(1)University Women's Hospital/Department of Biomedicine, Hebelstrasse 20, CH
4031 Basel, Switzerland. shahn@uhbs.ch

The application of recent technical developments, such as digital PCR or shot-gun
sequencing, for the analysis of cell-free fetal DNA, have indicated that the
long-sought goal of the noninvasive detection of Down syndrome may finally be
attained. Although these methods are still cumbersome and not high throughput,
they provide a paradigm shift in prenatal diagnosis, as they could effectively
pronounce the end of invasive procedures, such as amniocentesis or chorionic
villous sampling for the detection of such fetal anomalies. However, it remains
to be determined how suitable these approaches are for the detection of more
subtle fetal genetic alterations, such as those involved in hereditary Mendelian 
disorders (e.g., thalassemia and cystic fibrosis). New technical developments,
such as microfluidics and reliable automated scanning microscopes, have indicated
that it may be possible to efficiently retrieve and examine circulating fetal
cells. As these contain the entire genomic complement of the fetus, future
developments may include the noninvasive determination of the fetal karyotype.

DOI: 10.1586/erm.09.43 
PMID: 19732005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1397. Mol Biol Rep. 2010 Jun;37(5):2199-205. doi: 10.1007/s11033-009-9702-4. Epub 2009 
Aug 20.

Znrg, a novel gene expressed mainly in the developing notochord of zebrafish.

Zhou Y(1), Xu Y, Li J, Liu Y, Zhang Z, Deng F.

Author information: 
(1)The Laboratory of Molecular Genetics and Developmental Biology, College of
Life Sciences, Wuhan University, 430072 Wuhan, Hubei, China.

The notochord, a defining characteristic of the chordate embryo is a critical
midline structure required for axial skeletal formation in vertebrates, and acts 
as a signaling center throughout embryonic development. We utilized the digital
differential display program of the National Center for Biotechnology
Information, and identified a contig of expressed sequence tags (no. Dr. 83747)
from the zebrafish ovary library in Genbank. Full-length cDNA of the identified
gene was cloned by 5'- and 3'- RACE, and the resulting sequence was confirmed by 
polymerase chain reaction and sequencing. The cDNA clone contains 2,505 base
pairs and encodes a novel protein of 707 amino acids that shares no significant
homology with any known proteins. This gene was expressed in mature oocytes and
at the one-cell stage, and persisted until the 5th day of development, as
determined by RT-PCR. Transcripts were detected by whole-mount RNA in situ
hybridization from the two-cell stage to 72 h of embryonic development. This gene
was uniformly distributed from the cleavage stage up to the blastula stage.
During early gastrulation, it was present in the dorsal region, and became
restricted to the notochord and pectoral fin at 48 and 72 h of embryonic
development. Based on its abundance in the notochord, we hypothesized that the
novel gene may play an important role in notochord development in zebrafish; we
named this gene, zebrafish notochord-related gene, or znrg.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-009-9702-4 
PMID: 19693699  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1398. Mol Biol Rep. 2010 Jun;37(5):2341-6. doi: 10.1007/s11033-009-9739-4. Epub 2009
Aug 18.

Discovery, characterization and expression of a novel zebrafish gene, znfr,
important for notochord formation.

Xu Y(1), Zou P, Liu Y, Deng F.

Author information: 
(1)The Laboratory of Molecular Genetics and Developmental Biology, College of
Life Sciences, Wuhan University, 430072, Hubei, Wuhan, China.

Genes specifically expressed in the notochord may be crucial for proper notochord
development. Using the digital differential display program offered by the
National Center for Biotechnology Information, we identified a novel EST sequence
from a zebrafish ovary library (No. XM_701450). The full-length cDNA of this
transcript was cloned by performing 3' and 5'-RACE and was further confirmed by
PCR and sequencing. The resulting 614 bp gene was found to encode a novel 94
amino acid protein that did not share significant homology with any other known
protein. Characterization of the genomic sequence revealed that the gene spanned 
4.9 kb and was composed of four exons and three introns. RT-PCR gene expression
analysis revealed that our gene of interest was expressed in ovary, kidney,
brain, mature oocytes and during the early stages of embryogenesis. During
embryonic development, znfr mRNA was found to be expressed in the embryonic
shield, chordamesoderm and the vacuolated notochord cells by in situ
hybridization. Based on this information, we hypothesize that this novel gene is 
an important maternal factor required for zebrafish notochord formation during
early embryonic development. We have thus named this gene znfr (zebrafish
notochord formation related).

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-009-9739-4 
PMID: 19688271  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1399. Nat Biotechnol. 2009 Sep;27(9):847-50. doi: 10.1038/nbt.1561. Epub 2009 Aug 10.

Single-molecule sequencing of an individual human genome.

Pushkarev D(1), Neff NF, Quake SR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, Stanford University and Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Stanford, California, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Biotechnol. 2009 Sep;27(9):777.

Recent advances in high-throughput DNA sequencing technologies have enabled
order-of-magnitude improvements in both cost and throughput. Here we report the
use of single-molecule methods to sequence an individual human genome. We aligned
billions of 24- to 70-bp reads (32 bp average) to approximately 90% of the
National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) reference genome, with 28x
average coverage. Our results were obtained on one sequencing instrument by a
single operator with four data collection runs. Single-molecule sequencing
enabled analysis of human genomic information without the need for cloning,
amplification or ligation. We determined approximately 2.8 million single
nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with a false-positive rate of less than 1% as
validated by Sanger sequencing and 99.8% concordance with SNP genotyping arrays. 
We identified 752 regions of copy number variation by analyzing coverage depth
alone and validated 27 of these using digital PCR. This milestone should allow
widespread application of genome sequencing to many aspects of genetics and human
health, including personal genomics.

DOI: 10.1038/nbt.1561 
PMCID: PMC4117198
PMID: 19668243  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1400. J Clin Microbiol. 2009 Sep;47(9):2888-94. doi: 10.1128/JCM.00792-09. Epub 2009
Jul 29.

Development of a multiplex PCR-based rapid typing method for enterohemorrhagic
Escherichia coli O157 strains.

Ooka T(1), Terajima J, Kusumoto M, Iguchi A, Kurokawa K, Ogura Y, Asadulghani M, 
Nakayama K, Murase K, Ohnishi M, Iyoda S, Watanabe H, Hayashi T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Microbiology, Department of Infectious Diseases, Faculty of
Medicine, University of Miyazaki, Miyazaki 889-1692, Japan.

Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli O157 (EHEC O157) is a food-borne pathogen that
has raised worldwide public health concern. The development of simple and rapid
strain-typing methods is crucial for the rapid detection and surveillance of EHEC
O157 outbreaks. In the present study, we developed a multiplex PCR-based
strain-typing method for EHEC O157, which is based on the variability in genomic 
location of IS629 among EHEC O157 strains. This method is very simple, in that
the procedures are completed within 2 h, the analysis can be performed without
the need for special equipment or techniques (requiring only conventional PCR and
agarose gel electrophoresis systems), the results can easily be transformed into 
digital data, and the genes for the major virulence markers of EHEC O157 (the
stx(1), stx(2), and eae genes) can be detected simultaneously. Using this method,
201 EHEC O157 strains showing different XbaI digestion patterns in pulsed-field
gel electrophoresis (PFGE) analysis were classified into 127 types, and
outbreak-related strains showed identical or highly similar banding patterns.
Although this method is less discriminatory than PFGE, it may be useful as a
primary screening tool for EHEC O157 outbreaks.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.00792-09 
PMCID: PMC2738077
PMID: 19641072  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1401. Int J Oncol. 2009 Sep;35(3):537-46.

Differential gene expression in tumor adjacent histologically normal prostatic
tissue indicates field cancerization.

Haaland CM(1), Heaphy CM, Butler KS, Fischer EG, Griffith JK, Bisoffi M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of New Mexico
School of Medicine, Albuquerque, NM 87131, USA.

Field cancerization denotes the occurrence of aberrant cells in tumor adjacent
histologically normal tissues (TAHN). To characterize field cancerization in
prostate cancer, we used RNA from paired patient tumor and TAHN tissues excised
at 1 cm from the tumor margin and subjected them to microarray expression
analysis comparative to RNA from normal cancer-free prostatic tissues. Eleven
novel transcripts were significantly up-regulated in TAHN tissues and also in
tumors. Expression of early growth response protein 1, tristetraprolin, testican,
and fatty acid synthase, mutually up-regulated at different levels in tumors and 
TAHN tissues was confirmed by quantitative reverse transcriptase PCR in the
experimental and in an independent validation set. This study offers proof of
expressional changes in field cancerized prostatic TAHN tissues at defined
distances from tumor margins. Markers of field cancerized prostatic tissues could
be early diagnostic indicators in biopsies after abnormal prostate-specific
antigen and digital rectal examination and independent of cancerous histology
and/or early targets for chemo-preventive intervention in pre-malignant disease.


PMID: 19639174  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1402. Chem Commun (Camb). 2009 Jul 21;(27):4094-6. doi: 10.1039/b902196e. Epub 2009 Jun
10.

Highly sensitive mutation detection based on digital amplification coupled with
hydrogel bead-array.

Huang H(1), Qi Z, Deng L, Zhou G, Kajiyama T, Kambara H.

Author information: 
(1)Huadong Research Institute for Medicine and Biotechnics, Nanjing 210002,
China.

In order to detect small amounts of mutants for early cancer diagnosis, we have
developed the novel method of using amplicon-coated microbeads and
single-molecule-PCR in water-in-oil emulsions, which we coupled with a new
detection platform, the hydrogel bead-array, a 3-D polyacrylamide gel network
used as a carrier to immobilize the beads.

DOI: 10.1039/b902196e 
PMID: 19568644  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1403. Equine Vet J. 2009 Apr;41(4):335-41.

The effect of focused extracorporeal shock wave therapy on collagen matrix and
gene expression in normal tendons and ligaments.

Bosch G(1), de Mos M, van Binsbergen R, van Schie HT, van de Lest CH, van Weeren 
PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Equine Sciences, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Utrecht
University, Yalelaan 12, 3584 CM Utrecht, The Netherlands.

REASONS FOR PERFORMING STUDY: Extracorporeal shock wave therapy (ESWT) is
frequently used in equine practice, but little is known about its biological
action.
OBJECTIVES: To study the effects of ESWT on matrix structure and gene expression 
levels in normal, physiologically loaded tendinous structures in ponies.
METHODS: Six Shetland ponies, free of lameness and with ultrasonographically
normal flexor and extensor tendons and suspensory ligaments (SL), were used. ESWT
was applied at the origin of the suspensory ligament and the mid-metacarpal
region of the superficial digital flexor tendon (SDFT) 6 weeks prior to sample
taking, and at the mid-metacarpal region (ET) and the insertion on the extensor
process of the distal phalanx (EP) of the common digital extensor tendon 3 h
prior to tendon sampling. In all animals one forelimb was treated and the other
limb was used as control. After euthanasia, tendon tissue was harvested for
real-time PCR to determine gene expression levels and additional samples were
taken for histological evaluation and biochemical analyses
RESULTS: Histologically a disorganisation of the normal collagen structure was
observed 3 h after ESWT, remnants of which were still visible after 6 weeks.
While degraded collagen levels showed an increase at 3 h post treatment (P=
0.012) they were reduced at 6 weeks post ESWT (P = 0.039). Gene expression for
both COL1 (P = 0.004) and MMP14 (P = 0.020) was upregulated at 6 weeks after
treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Exposure of normal tendinous tissue to ESWT is not uneventful; it
leads to a disorganisation of matrix structure and changes in degraded collagen
levels. The upregulation of COL1 expression 6 weeks after ESWT may be indicative 
for repair.
POTENTIAL RELEVANCE: The observed disorganisation of the collagen network
warrants caution when using ESWT. Exposing noninjured tissue to ESWT should be
avoided and it may be advisable to restrict exercise in recently treated
patients. However, the induced tissue disorganisation might also be a trigger for
repair in chronic tendinopathies.


PMID: 19562893  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1404. Anal Chem. 2008 Dec 1;80(23):8975-81.

High-throughput quantitative polymerase chain reaction in picoliter droplets.

Kiss MM(1), Ortoleva-Donnelly L, Beer NR, Warner J, Bailey CG, Colston BW,
Rothberg JM, Link DR, Leamon JH.

Author information: 
(1)Raindance Technologies, 44 Hartwell Avenue, Lexington, Massachusetts 02421,
USA.

Limiting dilution PCR has become an increasingly useful technique for the
detection and quantification of rare species in a population, but the limit of
detection and accuracy of quantification are largely determined by the number of 
reactions that can be analyzed. Increased throughput may be achieved by reducing 
the reaction volume and increasing processivity. We have designed a
high-throughput microfluidic chip that encapsulates PCR reagents in millions of
picoliter droplets in a continuous oil flow. The oil stream conducts the droplets
through alternating denaturation and annealing zones, resulting in rapid (55-s
cycles) and efficient PCR amplification. Inclusion of fluorescent probes in the
PCR reaction mix permits the amplification process to be monitored within
individual droplets at specific locations within the microfluidic chip. We show
that amplification of a 245-bp adenovirus product can be detected and quantified 
in 35 min at starting template concentrations as low as 1 template molecule/167
droplets (0.003 pg/microL). The frequencies of positive reactions over a range of
template concentrations agree closely with the frequencies predicted by Poisson
statistics, demonstrating both the accuracy and sensitivity of this platform for 
limiting dilution and digital PCR applications.


PMCID: PMC2771884
PMID: 19551929  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1405. BMC Cancer. 2009 Jun 23;9:198. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-9-198.

A novel method, digital genome scanning detects KRAS gene amplification in
gastric cancers: involvement of overexpressed wild-type KRAS in downstream
signaling and cancer cell growth.

Mita H(1), Toyota M, Aoki F, Akashi H, Maruyama R, Sasaki Y, Suzuki H, Idogawa M,
Kashima L, Yanagihara K, Fujita M, Hosokawa M, Kusano M, Sabau SV, Tatsumi H,
Imai K, Shinomura Y, Tokino T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Cancer Research Institute, Sapporo Medical
University, Sapporo, Japan. mita@sapmed.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: Gastric cancer is the third most common malignancy affecting the
general population worldwide. Aberrant activation of KRAS is a key factor in the 
development of many types of tumor, however, oncogenic mutations of KRAS are
infrequent in gastric cancer. We have developed a novel quantitative method of
analysis of DNA copy number, termed digital genome scanning (DGS), which is based
on the enumeration of short restriction fragments, and does not involve PCR or
hybridization. In the current study, we used DGS to survey copy-number
alterations in gastric cancer cells.
METHODS: DGS of gastric cancer cell lines was performed using the sequences of
5000 to 15000 restriction fragments. We screened 20 gastric cancer cell lines and
86 primary gastric tumors for KRAS amplification by quantitative PCR, and
investigated KRAS amplification at the DNA, mRNA and protein levels by mutational
analysis, real-time PCR, immunoblot analysis, GTP-RAS pull-down assay and
immunohistochemical analysis. The effect of KRAS knock-down on the activation of 
p44/42 MAP kinase and AKT and on cell growth were examined by immunoblot and
colorimetric assay, respectively.
RESULTS: DGS analysis of the HSC45 gastric cancer cell line revealed the
amplification of a 500-kb region on chromosome 12p12.1, which contains the KRAS
gene locus. Amplification of the KRAS locus was detected in 15% (3/20) of gastric
cancer cell lines (8-18-fold amplification) and 4.7% (4/86) of primary gastric
tumors (8-50-fold amplification). KRAS mutations were identified in two of the
three cell lines in which KRAS was amplified, but were not detected in any of the
primary tumors. Overexpression of KRAS protein correlated directly with increased
KRAS copy number. The level of GTP-bound KRAS was elevated following serum
stimulation in cells with amplified wild-type KRAS, but not in cells with
amplified mutant KRAS. Knock-down of KRAS in gastric cancer cells that carried
amplified wild-type KRAS resulted in the inhibition of cell growth and
suppression of p44/42 MAP kinase and AKT activity.
CONCLUSION: Our study highlights the utility of DGS for identification of
copy-number alterations. Using DGS, we identified KRAS as a gene that is
amplified in human gastric cancer. We demonstrated that gene amplification likely
forms the molecular basis of overactivation of KRAS in gastric cancer. Additional
studies using a larger cohort of gastric cancer specimens are required to
determine the diagnostic and therapeutic implications of KRAS amplification and
overexpression.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-9-198 
PMCID: PMC2717977
PMID: 19545448  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1406. Trends Genet. 2009 Jul;25(7):324-31. doi: 10.1016/j.tig.2009.05.004. Epub 2009
Jun 18.

Non-invasive prenatal diagnosis by single molecule counting technologies.

Chiu RW(1), Cantor CR, Lo YM.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Research into Circulating Fetal Nucleic Acids, Li Ka Shing
Institute of Health Sciences, Department of Chemical Pathology, The Chinese
University of Hong Kong, Prince of Wales Hospital, 30-32 Ngan Shing Street,
Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong SAR, China.

Non-invasive prenatal diagnosis of fetal chromosomal aneuploidies and monogenic
diseases by analysing fetal DNA present in maternal plasma poses a challenging
goal. In particular, the presence of background maternal DNA interferes with the 
analysis of fetal DNA. Using single molecule counting methods, including digital 
PCR and massively parallel sequencing, many of the former problems have been
solved. Digital mutation dosage assessment can detect the number of mutant
alleles a fetus has inherited from its parents for fetal monogenic disease
diagnosis, and massively parallel plasma DNA sequencing enables the direct
detection of fetal chromosomal aneuploidies from maternal plasma. The analytical 
power of these methods, namely sensitivity, specificity, accuracy and precision, 
should catalyse the eventual clinical use of non-invasive prenatal diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tig.2009.05.004 
PMID: 19540612  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1407. Methods Mol Biol. 2009;551:117-28. doi: 10.1007/978-1-60327-999-4_10.

Spoligotyping for molecular epidemiology of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis
complex.

Driscoll JR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Wadsworth Center, New York State Department of Health, Albany, NY, USA.

Spacer oligonucleotide typing, or spoligotyping, is a rapid, polymerase chain
reaction (PCR)-based method for genotyping strains of the Mycobacterium
tuberculosis complex (MTB). Spoligotyping data can be represented in absolute
terms (digitally), and the results can be readily shared among laboratories,
thereby enabling the creation of large international databases. Since the
spoligotype assay was standardized more than 10 yr ago, tens of thousands of
isolates have been analyzed, giving a global picture of MTB strain diversity. The
method is highly reproducible and has been developed into a high-throughput assay
for large molecular epidemiology projects. In the United States, spoligotyping is
employed on nearly all newly identified culture-positive cases of tuberculosis as
part of a national genotyping program. The strengths of this method include its
low cost, its digital data results, the good correlation of its results with
other genetics markers, its fair level of overall differentiation of strains, its
high-throughput capacity, and its ability to provide species information.
However, the method's weaknesses include the inability of spoligotyping to
differentiate well within large strain families such as the Beijing family, the
potential for convergent evolution of patterns, the limited success in improving 
the assay through expansion, and the difficulty in obtaining the specialized
membranes and instrumentation.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-60327-999-4_10 
PMID: 19521871  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1408. Methods Mol Biol. 2009;551:71-87. doi: 10.1007/978-1-60327-999-4_7.

Molecular genotyping of microbes by multilocus PCR and mass spectrometry: a new
tool for hospital infection control and public health surveillance.

Ecker DJ(1), Massire C, Blyn LB, Hofstadler SA, Hannis JC, Eshoo MW, Hall TA,
Sampath R.

Author information: 
(1)Ibis Biosciences, 1896 Rutherford Rd., Carlsbad, CA, USA.

We describe a new technology for the molecular genotyping of microbes using a
platform known commercially as the Ibis T5000. The technology couples multilocus 
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to electrospray ionization/mass spectrometry
(PCR/ESI-MS) and was developed to provide rapid, high-throughput, and precise
digital analysis of either isolated colonies or original patient specimens on a
platform suitable for use in hospital or reference diagnostic laboratories or
public health settings. The PCR/ESI-MS method measures digital molecular
signatures from microbes, enabling real-time epidemiological surveillance and
outbreak investigation. This technology will facilitate understanding of the
pathways by which infectious organisms spread and will enable appropriate
interventions on a time frame not previously achievable.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-60327-999-4_7 
PMID: 19521868  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1409. Genomics. 2009 Sep;94(3):211-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ygeno.2009.05.003. Epub 2009 May
13.

A novel approach to detect differentially expressed genes from count-based
digital databases by normalizing with housekeeping genes.

Lü B(1), Yu J, Xu J, Chen J, Lai M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, the Affiliated Women's Hospital, Zhejiang University,
PR China.

Sequence tag count-based gene expression analysis is potent for the
identification of candidate genes relevant to the cancerous phenotype. With the
public availability of count-based data, the computational approaches for
differentially expressed genes, which are mainly based on Binomial or
beta-Binomial distribution, become practical and important in cancer biology. It 
remains a permanent need to select a proper statistical model for these methods. 
In this study, we developed a novel Bayesian algorithm-based method, Electronic
Differential Gene Expression Screener (EDGES), in which a statistical model was
determined by geometric averaging of 12 common housekeeping genes. EDGES
identified a set of differentially expressed genes in lung, breast and colorectal
cancers by using publically available Serial Analysis of Gene Expression (SAGE)
and Expressed Sequence Tag (EST data). Gene expression microarray analysis and
quantitative reverse transcription real-time PCR demonstrated the effectiveness
of this procedure. We conclude that current normalization of calibrators provides
a new insight into count-based digital subtraction in cancer research.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygeno.2009.05.003 
PMID: 19446020  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1410. Br J Dermatol. 2009 Oct;161(4):930-2. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2133.2009.09221.x. Epub
2009 May 12.

Detection of Merkel cell polyomavirus DNA in Merkel cell carcinomas.

Varga E(1), Kiss M, Szabó K, Kemény L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology and Allergology, University of Szeged, H-6720
Szeged, Hungary. vargerik@mail.derma.szote.u-szeged.hu

BACKGROUND: Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is a rare, aggressive tumour for which an
increasing incidence has been reported. A new human polyomavirus, Merkel cell
polyomavirus (MCV), was recently isolated from these tumours by applying digital 
transcriptome subtraction methodology.
OBJECTIVES: To detect the presence or absence of MCV in MCCs and other, randomly 
selected neoplasms.
METHODS: Nine primary or recurrent MCCs from seven patients were examined; 29
other tumours (squamous cell, basal cell and basosquamous carcinomas and
malignant melanomas) were examined for comparative purposes. Viral large T
protein (LT1 and LT3), and viral capsid protein (VP1) were detected by
primer-directed amplification, using a polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based
method, and the amplified PCR products were analysed by agarose gel
electrophoresis and subsequent sequence analysis.
RESULTS: The presence of viral T antigen and/or viral capsid DNA sequences was
demonstrated in seven of the eight MCC lesions. None of the comparative samples
contained MCV DNA.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings strongly support the hypothesis that MCV infection may 
well be specific for MCC, and MCV may play a role in the pathogenesis of MCC.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2133.2009.09221.x 
PMID: 19438857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1411. J Mol Neurosci. 2009 Jul;38(3):250-6. doi: 10.1007/s12031-009-9205-8. Epub 2009
May 8.

Effect of BDNF Val66Met polymorphism on digital working memory and spatial
localization in a healthy Chinese Han population.

Gong P(1), Zheng A, Chen D, Ge W, Lv C, Zhang K, Gao X, Zhang F.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Resource Biology and Biotechnology in Western China
(Ministry of Education), Institute of Population & Health, College of Life
Science, Northwest University, Xi'an, China.

Cognitive abilities are complex human traits influenced by genetic factors.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a unique polypeptide growth factor, has
an influence on the differentiation and survival of neurons in the nervous
system. A single-nucleotide polymorphism (rs6265) in the human gene, resulting in
a valine to methionine substitution in the pro-BDNF protein, was thought to
associate with psychiatric disorders and might play roles in the individual
difference of cognitive abilities. However, the specific roles of the gene in
cognition remain unclear. To investigate the relationships between the
substitution and cognitive abilities, a healthy population-based study and the
PCR-SSCP method were performed. The results showed the substitution was
associated with digital working memory (p = 0.02) and spatial localization (p =
0.03), but not with inhibition, shifting, updating, visuo-spatial working memory,
long-term memory, and others (p > 0.05) among the compared genotype groups
analyzed by general linear model. On the other hand, the participants with BDNF
(GG) had higher average performance in digital working memory and spatial
localization than the ones with BDNF (AA). The findings of the present work
implied that the variation in BDNF might play positive roles in human digital
working memory and spatial localization.

DOI: 10.1007/s12031-009-9205-8 
PMID: 19424874  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1412. Calcif Tissue Int. 2009 Jul;85(1):55-65. doi: 10.1007/s00223-009-9250-x. Epub
2009 May 8.

Comparison of osteogenic potentials of BMP4 transduced stem cells from autologous
bone marrow and fat tissue in a rabbit model of calvarial defects.

Lin L(1), Shen Q, Wei X, Hou Y, Xue T, Fu X, Duan X, Yu C.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Sports Medicine, Peking University Third Hospital, No.49, North
Garden Road, Haidian District, Beijing 100191, People's Republic of China.

We compared bone marrow stem cells (BMSCs) and adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs)
of adult rabbits under identical conditions in terms of their culture
characteristics, proliferation capacity, osteogenic differentiation potentials
induced by adenovirus-containing bone morphogenetic protein 4 (Ad-BMP4) in vitro,
and capacity to repair calvarial defects in the rabbit model by autologous
transplantation ex vivo. According to the results of growth curve, cell cycle,
and telomerase activity analysis, ADSCs possess a higher proliferation potential.
Both of the Ad-BMP4 transduced MSCs expressed BMP4 mRNA and protein and underwent
osteogenic differentiation. Up-regulated mRNA expression of all osteogenic genes 
was observed in differentiated BMSCs and ADSCs, but with different patterns
confirmed by real-time RT-PCR. Deposition of calcified extracellular matrix was
significantly greater in differentiated ADSCs compared with differentiated BMSCs.
X-ray and histological examination indicated significant bone regeneration in the
calvarial defects transplanted with Ad-BMP4 transduced autologous MSCs compared
to the control groups. There was no significant difference in new bone formation 
in Ad-BMP4 transduced MSCs based on quantitative digital analysis of histological
sections. The use of ADSCs often resulted in the growth of fat tissue structures 
in the control groups, and the fat tissue structures were not seen with BMSC
cells. Our data demonstrate that BMP4 can be potently osteoinductive in vivo,
resulting in bone repair. ADSCs may be an attractive alternative to BMSCs for
bone tissue engineering under appropriate stimuli. But the easy adipogenic
differentiation needs to be considered when choosing adipose tissue for specific 
clinical application.

DOI: 10.1007/s00223-009-9250-x 
PMID: 19424738  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1413. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Nan Fang Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2009 Apr;29(4):631-4.

[Molecular cloning of a novel human testis-specific gene TDRG1].

[Article in Chinese]

Yin GM(1), Yang JF, Jiang XZ, Tang YX, He LY, Jiang ZQ, Zhong KB, Zeng Q.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Third Xiangya Hospital, Central South University,
Changsha 410013, China. yingm75@126.com

Retraction in
    Nan Fang Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2009 Aug;29(8):1711.

OBJECTIVE: To clone a novel human testis-specific gene TDRG1.
METHODS: A new contig of expression sequence tags (ESTs) Hs.180197 was identified
from the testis libraries using digital differential display (DDD) to screen the 
novel human testis-specific gene. To validate the use of bioinformatics
approaches in gene discovery, the ESTs Hs.180197, which was predicted to be
testis specific, was chosen for further study. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase
chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed on different normal tissues to identify the
expression of Hs.180197 in human testis. Using bioinformatics methods and IMAGE
cloning of this contig, the full-length cDNA sequence of the noval human gene was
cloned.
RESULTS: This novel gene was 1197 bp in length, located in chromosome
6p21.1-p21.2. The sequence of the open reading frame was 504-806 bp, as confirmed
by RT-PCR and sequencing in human testis. The cDNA encodes a novel protein of 100
amino acids with a theoretical molecular weight of 10 000 and isoelectric point
of 6.81. The sequence shares no significant homology with any known protein in
the databases. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis of multiple tissues further
showed that the novel gene was expressed specifically in adult human testis.
Considering a possible relation of this novel gene with the function of human
testis, we named this new gene TDRG1 (testis development related gene 1, GenBank 
accession number: DQ168992).
CONCLUSION: DDD combined with laboratory validation is an efficient method for
identifying new human functional genes.


PMID: 19403381  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1414. PLoS One. 2009;4(4):e5311. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0005311. Epub 2009 Apr 23.

Repertoire of microRNAs in epithelial ovarian cancer as determined by next
generation sequencing of small RNA cDNA libraries.

Wyman SK(1), Parkin RK, Mitchell PS, Fritz BR, O'Briant K, Godwin AK, Urban N,
Drescher CW, Knudsen BS, Tewari M.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Human Biology, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle,
Washington, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small regulatory RNAs that are implicated in
cancer pathogenesis and have recently shown promise as blood-based biomarkers for
cancer detection. Epithelial ovarian cancer is a deadly disease for which
improved outcomes could be achieved by successful early detection and enhanced
understanding of molecular pathogenesis that leads to improved therapies. A
critical step toward these goals is to establish a comprehensive view of miRNAs
expressed in epithelial ovarian cancer tissues as well as in normal ovarian
surface epithelial cells.
METHODOLOGY: We used massively parallel pyrosequencing (i.e., "454 sequencing")
to discover and characterize novel and known miRNAs expressed in primary cultures
of normal human ovarian surface epithelium (HOSE) and in tissue from three of the
most common histotypes of ovarian cancer. Deep sequencing of small RNA cDNA
libraries derived from normal HOSE and ovarian cancer samples yielded a total of 
738,710 high-quality sequence reads, generating comprehensive digital profiles of
miRNA expression. Expression profiles for 498 previously annotated miRNAs were
delineated and we discovered six novel miRNAs and 39 candidate miRNAs. A set of
124 miRNAs was differentially expressed in normal versus cancer samples and 38
miRNAs were differentially expressed across histologic subtypes of ovarian
cancer. Taqman qRT-PCR performed on a subset of miRNAs confirmed results of the
sequencing-based study.
CONCLUSIONS: This report expands the body of miRNAs known to be expressed in
epithelial ovarian cancer and provides a useful resource for future studies of
the role of miRNAs in the pathogenesis and early detection of ovarian cancer.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0005311 
PMCID: PMC2668797
PMID: 19390579  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1415. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2009 May;200(5):543.e1-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ajog.2009.03.002.

Microfluidic digital PCR enables rapid prenatal diagnosis of fetal aneuploidy.

Fan HC(1), Blumenfeld YJ, El-Sayed YY, Chueh J, Quake SR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, Stanford University and Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Stanford, CA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to demonstrate that digital polymerase
chain reaction (PCR) enables rapid, allele independent molecular detection of
fetal aneuploidy.
STUDY DESIGN: Twenty-four amniocentesis and 16 chorionic villus samples were used
for microfluidic digital PCR analysis. Three thousand and sixty PCR reactions
were performed for each of the target chromosomes (X, Y, 13, 18, and 21), and the
number of single molecule amplifications was compared to a reference. The
difference between target and reference chromosome counts was used to determine
the ploidy of each of the target chromosomes.
RESULTS: Digital PCR accurately identified all cases of fetal trisomy (3 cases of
trisomy 21, 3 cases of trisomy 18, and 2 cases of triosmy 13) in the 40 specimens
analyzed. The remaining specimens were determined to have normal ploidy for the
chromosomes tested.
CONCLUSION: Microfluidic digital PCR allows detection of fetal chromosomal
aneuploidy utilizing uncultured amniocytes and chorionic villus tissue in less
than 6 hours.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2009.03.002 
PMCID: PMC4117196
PMID: 19375573  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1416. BMC Genomics. 2009 Mar 19;10:116. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-10-116.

Digital PCR provides sensitive and absolute calibration for high throughput
sequencing.

White RA 3rd(1), Blainey PC, Fan HC, Quake SR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering at Stanford University and Howard Hughes Medical 
Institute, Stanford, CA 94305, USA. raw937@sbcglobal.net

Erratum in
    BMC Genomics. 2009;10:541.

BACKGROUND: Next-generation DNA sequencing on the 454, Solexa, and SOLiD
platforms requires absolute calibration of the number of molecules to be
sequenced. This requirement has two unfavorable consequences. First, large
amounts of sample-typically micrograms-are needed for library preparation,
thereby limiting the scope of samples which can be sequenced. For many
applications, including metagenomics and the sequencing of ancient, forensic, and
clinical samples, the quantity of input DNA can be critically limiting. Second,
each library requires a titration sequencing run, thereby increasing the cost and
lowering the throughput of sequencing.
RESULTS: We demonstrate the use of digital PCR to accurately quantify 454 and
Solexa sequencing libraries, enabling the preparation of sequencing libraries
from nanogram quantities of input material while eliminating costly and
time-consuming titration runs of the sequencer. We successfully sequenced
low-nanogram scale bacterial and mammalian DNA samples on the 454 FLX and Solexa 
DNA sequencing platforms. This study is the first to definitively demonstrate the
successful sequencing of picogram quantities of input DNA on the 454 platform,
reducing the sample requirement more than 1000-fold without pre-amplification and
the associated bias and reduction in library depth.
CONCLUSION: The digital PCR assay allows absolute quantification of sequencing
libraries, eliminates uncertainties associated with the construction and
application of standard curves to PCR-based quantification, and with a
coefficient of variation close to 10%, is sufficiently precise to enable direct
sequencing without titration runs.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-10-116 
PMCID: PMC2667538
PMID: 19298667  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1417. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2009 May;394(2):457-67. doi: 10.1007/s00216-009-2729-5. Epub
2009 Mar 15.

Single molecule detection in nanofluidic digital array enables accurate
measurement of DNA copy number.

Bhat S(1), Herrmann J, Armishaw P, Corbisier P, Emslie KR.

Author information: 
(1)National Measurement Institute, Lindfield, New South Wales, Australia.

Digital polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a promising technique for estimating
target DNA copy number. PCR solution is distributed throughout numerous
partitions, and following amplification, target DNA copy number is estimated
based on the proportion of partitions containing amplified DNA. Here, we identify
approaches for obtaining reliable digital PCR data. Single molecule amplification
efficiency was significantly improved following fragmentation of total DNA and
bias in copy number estimates reduced by analysis of short intact target DNA
fragments. Random and independent distribution of target DNA molecules throughout
partitions, which is critical to accurate digital PCR measurement, was
demonstrated by spatial distribution analysis. The estimated relative uncertainty
for target DNA concentration was under 6% when analyzing five digital panels
comprising 765 partitions each, provided the panels contained an average of 212
to 3,365 template molecules. Partition volume was a major component of this
uncertainty estimate. These findings can be applied to other digital PCR studies 
to improve confidence in such measurements.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-009-2729-5 
PMID: 19288230  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1418. Clin Cancer Res. 2009 Mar 15;15(6):2076-84. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-08-2622.
Epub 2009 Mar 10.

Single-molecule detection of epidermal growth factor receptor mutations in plasma
by microfluidics digital PCR in non-small cell lung cancer patients.

Yung TK(1), Chan KC, Mok TS, Tong J, To KF, Lo YM.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory in Oncology in South China, Sir Y.K. Pao Centre for
Cancer, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Prince of Wales Hospital, Hong Kong
Special Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.

PURPOSE: We aim to develop a digital PCR-based method for the quantitative
detection of the two common epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations
(in-frame deletion at exon 19 and L858R at exon 21) in the plasma and tumor
tissues of patients suffering from non-small cell lung cancers. These two
mutations account for >85% of clinically important EGFR mutations associated with
responsiveness to tyrosine kinase inhibitors.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: DNA samples were analyzed using a microfluidics system that 
simultaneously performed 9,180 PCRs at nanoliter scale. A single-mutant DNA
molecule in a clinical specimen could be detected and the quantities of mutant
and wild-type sequences were precisely determined.
RESULTS: Exon 19 deletion and L858R mutation were detectable in 6 (17%) and 9
(26%) of 35 pretreatment plasma samples, respectively. When compared with the
sequencing results of the tumor samples, the sensitivity and specificity of
plasma EGFR mutation analysis were 92% and 100%, respectively. The plasma
concentration of the mutant sequences correlated well with the clinical response.
Decreased concentration was observed in all patients with partial or complete
clinical remission, whereas persistence of mutation was observed in a patient
with cancer progression. In one patient, tyrosine kinase inhibitor was stopped
after an initial response and the tumor-associated EGFR mutation reemerged 4
weeks after stopping treatment.
CONCLUSION: The sensitive detection and accurate quantification of low abundance 
EGFR mutations in tumor tissues and plasma by microfluidics digital PCR would be 
useful for predicting treatment response, monitoring disease progression and
early detection of treatment failure associated with acquired drug resistance.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-08-2622 
PMID: 19276259  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1419. BMC Musculoskelet Disord. 2009 Feb 26;10:27. doi: 10.1186/1471-2474-10-27.

Gene expression markers of tendon fibroblasts in normal and diseased tissue
compared to monolayer and three dimensional culture systems.

Taylor SE(1), Vaughan-Thomas A, Clements DN, Pinchbeck G, Macrory LC, Smith RK,
Clegg PD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Clinical Science, University of Liverpool, Neston,
South Wirral, UK. Sarah.Taylor@liv.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: There is a paucity of data regarding molecular markers that identify 
the phenotype of the tendon cell. This study aims to quantify gene expression
markers that distinguish between tendon fibroblasts and other mesenchymal cells
which may be used to investigate tenogenesis.
METHODS: Expression levels for 12 genes representative of musculoskeletal
tissues, including the proposed tendon progenitor marker scleraxis, relative to
validated reference genes, were evaluated in matched samples of equine tendon
(harvested from the superficial digital flexor tendon), cartilage and bone using 
quantitative PCR (qPCR). Expression levels of genes associated with tendon
phenotype were then evaluated in healthy, including developmental, and diseased
equine tendon tissue and in tendon fibroblasts maintained in both monolayer
culture and in three dimensional (3D) collagen gels.
RESULTS: Significantly increased expression of scleraxis was found in tendon
compared with bone (P = 0.002) but not compared to cartilage. High levels of
COL1A2 and scleraxis and low levels of tenascin-C were found to be most
representative of adult tensional tendon phenotype. While, relative expression of
scleraxis in developing mid-gestational tendon or in acute or chronically
diseased tendon did not differ significantly from normal adult tendon, tenascin-C
message was significantly upregulated in acutely injured equine tendon (P =
0.001). Relative scleraxis gene expression levels in tendon cell monolayer and 3D
cultures were significantly lower than in normal adult tendon (P = 0.002, P =
0.02 respectively).
CONCLUSION: The findings of this study indicate that high expression of both
COL1A2 and scleraxis, and low expression of tenascin-C is representative of a
tensional tendon phenotype. The in vitro culture methods used in these
experiments however, may not recapitulate the phenotype of normal tensional
tendon fibroblasts in tissues as evidenced by gene expression.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2474-10-27 
PMCID: PMC2651848
PMID: 19245707  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1420. J Infect Dis. 2009 Mar 1;199(5):680-3. doi: 10.1086/596632.

Distribution of genital Lactobacillus strains shared by female sex partners.

Marrazzo JM(1), Antonio M, Agnew K, Hillier SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA.
jmm2@u.washington.edu

The prevalence of bacterial vaginosis among lesbians is high. We assessed whether
unique Lactobacillus strains were shared by female sex partners. Cultures of
vaginal and rectal specimens for detection of Lactobacillus organisms were
performed for women who reported having had sex with women. Lactobacilli were
identified on the basis of DNA homology and were typed and fingerprinted by
repetitive element sequence-based polymerase chain reaction (rep-PCR). Of 237
women, Lactobacillus crispatus was detected in 98% and Lactobacillus gasseri in
21%. Detection of L. gasseri was associated with recent receptive digital-vaginal
sex (P = .04) and increased bacterial vaginosis risk (odds ratio, 4.2; 95%
confidence interval, 1.4-13.4). Of 31 couples monogamous for >3 months, rep-PCR
fingerprints were identical in both members in 23 (77%).

DOI: 10.1086/596632 
PMCID: PMC3291173
PMID: 19199538  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1421. Ultrasound Med Biol. 2009 Apr;35(4):576-84. doi:
10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2008.07.003. Epub 2009 Jan 30.

Effect of transosseous application of low-intensity ultrasound at the tendon
graft-bone interface healing: gene expression and histological analysis in
rabbits.

Papatheodorou LK(1), Malizos KN, Poultsides LA, Hantes ME, Grafanaki K, Giannouli
S, Ioannou MG, Koukoulis GK, Protopappas VC, Fotiadis DI, Stathopoulos C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery & Musculoskeletal Trauma, University
Hospital of Larissa, School of Health Sciences, University of Thessaly, 22
Papakiriazi st., Larissa, Greece.

The present study investigates the effect of transosseous low-intensity pulsed
ultrasound (LiUS) on the healing at tendon graft-bone interface, in molecular and
histological level. The anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) in both knees of 52 New 
Zealand White rabbits was excised and replaced with the long digital extensor. A 
custom-made ultrasound transducer was implanted onto the medial tibial condyle,
adjacent to the surface of the bone tunnel at both knees of the rabbits. The
LiUS-treated right knees received 200-mus bursts of 1 MHz sine waves at a pulse
repetition rate of 1 kHz and with 30 mW/cm(2) spatial-average temporal-average
intensity for 20 min daily (study group), while the left knee received no LiUS
(control group). Thirty-six rabbits were used to perform semiquantitative reverse
transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis from both study and
control groups for transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1), biglycan and
collagen I. RT-PCR products showed statistically significant upregulation of
biglycan and collagen I gene expression in the study group, while TGF-beta1 gene 
expression exhibited a bimodal profile. Histological examination performed in 16 
rabbits from both groups supported the findings of the molecular analysis,
indicating a faster healing rate and a more efficient ligamentization process
after ultrasound treatment. These findings suggest that transosseous application 
of LiUS enhances the healing rate of the tendon graft-bone interface, possibly by
affecting the expression levels of genes significant for the tendon to bone
healing process.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2008.07.003 
PMID: 19185973  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1422. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2008 Oct;44(10):916-20.

[Mechanism of arsenic trioxide induced apoptosis in cultured human lens
epithelium cells].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang H(1), Liu P, Yu XH, Song Z.

Author information: 
(1)Eye Hospital, the First Clinical Hospital of Harbin Medical University, Harbin
150001, China. dr.hzhang2007@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To study cytotoxic effects of arsenic trioxide (As2O3) on the human
lens epithelium cells and to identify the biological mechanism for these effects.
METHODS: In this experimental study, human lens epithelium cells (FHL124 cells)
were cultured in Eagle's minimum essential medium supplemented with 5% fetal calf
serum. The effects of As2O3 on FHL124 cells growth were tested by MTT, and
apoptosis was detected by TUNEL assay. Gene changes were detected by real-time
PCR (Taqman). As2O3-induced changes in cell calcium level were measured by
real-time fluorometric single-cell digital imaging techniques after Fura-2
incorporation.
RESULTS: As2O3 inhibited the growth of FHL 124 cells in vitro in a dose-dependent
manner, given an IC50 value of 1.5 micromol/L. As2O3 induced apoptosis of FHL124 
cells as showed by TUNEL assay. As2O3 provoked an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)
stress response identified through an up regulation of EIF2A, ERN1 and ATF6 (F = 
8.51, P = 0.0005). As2O3 depleted the calcium store and consequently lead to a
decrease of calcium signaling (P = 0.0018). Moreover, As2O3 had a moderate effect
on the calcium influx pathway.
CONCLUSIONS: As2O3 inhibits the growth and induces apoptosis of human lens
epithelium cells. As2O3 provokes an ER stress which could be the cause of apoptic
processes.


PMID: 19176121  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1423. Curr Eye Res. 2009 Jan;34(1):10-7. doi: 10.1080/02713680802579196.

Pitavastatin attenuates leukocyte-endothelial interactions induced by
ischemia-reperfusion injury in the rat retina.

Miyaki K(1), Matsubara A, Nishiwaki A, Tomida K, Morita H, Yoshida M, Ogura Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Nagoya City University
Graduate School of Medicine, Mizuho-ku, Nagoya, Japan.

PURPOSE: Statins (3-hydroxy-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors) have 
been shown to lower serum cholesterol levels in clinical use. Moreover, it has
been reported that statins exert pleiotropic and beneficial effects on vascular
endothelium. Therefore, we investigated the effects of pitavastatin, a new
statin, on leukocyte accumulation during ischemia-reperfusion injury.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Transient retinal ischemia was induced in Long-Evans rats 
for 60 min by temporal ligation of the optic nerve. Pitavastatin (0.12, 0.35, or 
1.1 mg/kg) was administered 5 min prior to the induction of retinal ischemia.
Leukocyte-endothelial interactions in the post-ischemic retina were evaluated in 
vivo with acridine orange digital fluorography. The number of rolling leukocytes,
number of accumulated leukocytes, and diameters of the major retinal artery and
vein were evaluated. Intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) mRNA expression
in the retina was semiquantitatively studied using the RT-PCR method.
RESULTS: Pitavastatin-treated rats at doses of 0.35 and 1.1 mg/kg showed mild
arterial narrowing (p < 0.01) and venous dilation (p < 0.01) compared with
vehicle-treated (ischemic) rats. In rats treated with 0.35 mg/kg pitavastatin,
the number of rolling leukocytes was significantly reduced by 35.5% (p < 0.01) 12
hr after reperfusion compared with that of vehicle-treated rats. With treatment
at a dose of 0.35 mg/kg pitavastatin, the number of accumulated leukocytes was
reduced to 68.7% (p < 0.01) 24 hr after reperfusion. Moreover, pitavastatin
treatment significantly reduced ICAM-1 mRNA expression in the retina during
ischemia-reperfusion injury.
CONCLUSIONS: Pitavastatin effectively attenuated ischemia-induced
leukocyte-endothelial interactions in the rat retina.

DOI: 10.1080/02713680802579196 
PMID: 19172465  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1424. J Clin Microbiol. 2009 Mar;47(3):727-33. doi: 10.1128/JCM.01574-08. Epub 2009 Jan
14.

Genetic heterogeneity among strains of Treponema phagedenis-like spirochetes
isolated from dairy cattle with papillomatous digital dermatitis in Japan.

Yano T(1), Yamagami R, Misumi K, Kubota C, Moe KK, Hayashi T, Yoshitani K, Ohtake
O, Misawa N.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Veterinary Public Health, Department of Veterinary Science,
Faculty of Agriculture, University of Miyazaki, 1-1 Gakuenkibanadainishi,
Miyazaki 889-2192, Japan.

Papillomatous digital dermatitis (PDD) is an infectious foot disease of cattle
that is prevalent throughout the world. Although it has been prevalent in Japan
since the first case was reported in 1992, full epidemiological and
bacteriological examinations have not been conducted. We collected 91 lesions of 
PDD from 80 dairy cattle on 12 farms in eight regions of Japan to isolate the
spirochetes that are frequently detected in lesions. We isolated 40 strains of
spirochetes from 24 cattle (30.0%) by a simple two-step culture technique, in
which the biopsy samples were incubated at 4 degrees C for 48 to 72 h in an
enrichment broth supplemented with antibiotics, which improved the rate of
isolation, and then inoculated on selective agar plates. All spirochetes examined
were catalase positive and oxidase negative and showed weak beta-hemolytic
activity. Enzyme activities were identical to those of Treponema phagedenis ATCC 
27087. Sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene showed that all strains isolated had >99% 
identity to those of the T. phagedenis type strain and of T. phagedenis-like
strains isolated from PDD lesions in the United States and Europe. Pulsed-field
gel electrophoresis and PCR-based random amplified polymorphism DNA methods
revealed considerable diversity among strains isolated not only from different
cattle but also from the same individuals. These findings may provide further
evidence for the role of these treponemes in the pathogenesis of persistent PDD.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.01574-08 
PMCID: PMC2650925
PMID: 19144810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1425. J Clin Microbiol. 2009 Mar;47(3):689-96. doi: 10.1128/JCM.01914-08. Epub 2009 Jan
14.

Association of unique, isolated treponemes with bovine digital dermatitis
lesions.

Evans NJ(1), Brown JM, Demirkan I, Singh P, Getty B, Timofte D, Vink WD, Murray
RD, Blowey RW, Birtles RJ, Hart CA, Carter SD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Pathology, Faculty of Veterinary Science, University 
of Liverpool, Liverpool L69 3BX, United Kingdom. evansnj@liverpool.ac.uk

This study used a PCR-based approach targeting 16S rRNA gene fragments to
determine the occurrence and association of the three bovine digital dermatitis
(BDD) treponeme phylogroups within lesions found in cattle from the United
Kingdom. Examination of 51 BDD lesions collected from infected cattle across the 
United Kingdom revealed that BDD treponeme group 1 (Treponema medium/Treponema
vincentii-like), group 2 (Treponema phagedenis-like), and group 3 (Treponema
putidum/Treponema denticola-like) were present in 96.1%, 98%, and 76.5% of BDD
lesions, respectively. The three phylogroups were present together in 74.5% of
lesions. The PCR assays enabled the isolation of further treponeme strains from
previously mixed primary BDD lesion cultures. Here a representative from each of 
the three distinct treponeme phylogroups was isolated from a single BDD lesion
for the first time. These data highlight the extent to which this disease is
polytreponemal. Immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy were used to
investigate lesional hoof tissues, resulting in treponemes being identified
copiously in hair follicles and sebaceous glands, suggesting a potential route of
exit and/or entry for these pathogens. This study gives further evidence for the 
importance of the three treponeme groups in BDD pathogenesis and reiterates the
value of molecular genetic approaches for isolating and identifying fastidious
anaerobes.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.01914-08 
PMCID: PMC2650952
PMID: 19144804  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1426. Zhonghua Xin Xue Guan Bing Za Zhi. 2008 Dec;36(12):1110-4.

[In vivo transfection of hepatocyte growth factor gene induces pulmonary
angiogenesis in rabbits with hyperkinetic pulmonary hypertension].

[Article in Chinese]

WANG W(1), WU SM, ZHANG ZM, ZHANG YQ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Affiliated Hospital of Xuzhou Medical
College, Xuzhou 221002, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of adenoviral-mediated exogenous HGF
(Ad-HGF) gene transfer on lung angiogenesis in the rabbit lung in rabbits with
hyperkinetic pulmonary artery hypertension.
METHODS: A thoracotomy was performed through a midsternal incision in 1-month-old
immature rabbit and an anastomosis between the left innominate artery and the
pulmonary trunk was made to establish a chronic patent left to right shunt. Three
months later, animals were randomly assigned to receive either Ad-HGF (2 x 10(9) 
Pfu in 0.2 ml PBS, H1 group), repeated administration of Ad-HGF after one week (H
2 group), Ad-GFP (2 x 10(9) Pfu in 0.2 ml PBS, G group), or PBS (0.2 ml, C group)
by the intratracheal method of gene transfection. After two weeks, reverse
transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunohistochemical
examination was performed to identify HGF mRNA and HGF protein expression. The
capillary density and small pulmonary artery density were determined by
immunostained with antibodies against factor VIII and alpha-SMA. After 1 month,
the collateral vessels were evaluated by angiogram under digital subtraction
angiography (DSA).
RESULTS: Two weeks after Ad-HGF transfection, 484 bp bands could be found by
RT-PCR in H1 and H2 groups, but not in other groups. The expression of HGF
protein could be detected on alveolar epithelium and pulmonary vessel endothelium
by immunohistochemistry examination. The number of factor VIII-positive pulmonary
capillaries was also significantly increased in the H1 and H2 groups compared
with the C and G groups (P < 0.05). The capillary density reached (17.0 +/- 3.3) 
mm(2) and (19.7 +/- 2.8) mm(2) in the H1 and H2 group, respectively, whereas it
remained (13.2 +/- 3.2) mm(2) in the C group and (13.5 +/- 2.4) mm(2) in the G
group (P < 0.05). One month after Ad-HGF transfection, the number of small
pulmonary arteries was significantly increased in H1 and H2 group compared with
control groups (P < 0.05). The collateral vessels were more abundant in HGF
transfection groups than that in the two control groups reviewed by angiogram
under digital subtraction angiography (DSA).
CONCLUSION: In vivo gene transfection with HGF by means of the intra-tracheal
injection could induce pulmonary angiogenesis in the early stage and small
pulmonary arterial angiogenesis in later stage.


PMID: 19134281  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1427. Vet Immunol Immunopathol. 2009 Jun 15;129(3-4):231-41. doi:
10.1016/j.vetimm.2008.11.022. Epub 2008 Nov 25.

Cloning and expression of ADAM-related metalloproteases in equine laminitis.

Coyne MJ(1), Cousin H, Loftus JP, Johnson PJ, Belknap JK, Gradil CM, Black SJ,
Alfandari D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, University of Massachusetts,
Amherst, MA 01003, United States.

Equine laminitis is a debilitating disease affecting the digital laminae that
suspend the distal phalanx within the hoof. While the clinical progression of the
disease has been well documented, the molecular events associated with its
pathogenesis remain largely unknown. Using real time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR), 
we have investigated the expression of genes coding for proteins containing a
Disintegrin and Metalloprotease domain (ADAM), as well as genes encoding the
natural inhibitors of these enzymes (tissue inhibitor of metalloprotease; TIMP)
in horses with naturally-acquired (acute, chronic and aggravated chronic clinical
cases) or experimentally-induced (black walnut extract (BWE) and starch gruel
models) laminitis. Changes in expression of these enzymes and regulators may
underlie the pathologic remodeling of lamellar tissue in laminitis. Genes
encoding ADAMs involved in inflammation (ADAM-10 and ADAM-17), as well as those
implicated in arthritis (ADAMTS-1, ADAMTS-4 and ADAMTS-5) were cloned, and the
sequences used to generate specific oligonucleotide primers for the RT-qPCR
experiments. Our results show that genes encoding ADAM-10 and ADAM-17 were not
induced in most laminitic animals, whereas ADAMTS-4 gene expression was strongly 
upregulated in nearly all horses with experimentally-induced and
naturally-acquired laminitis. The expression of matrix metalloproteases (MMP)-9
and ADAMTS-5 was also increased in many of the laminitic horses. In addition,
TIMP-2 gene expression was decreased in most laminitic horses, whereas expression
of genes encoding other TIMPs, namely TIMP-1 and TIMP-3, was randomly increased
or decreased in the various models. We conclude that increased expression of
lamellar ADAMTS-4 is a common feature of laminitis consistent with a central role
of the gene product in the pathophysiology of the disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetimm.2008.11.022 
PMCID: PMC2907504
PMID: 19131116  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1428. Genes Immun. 2009 Apr;10(3):210-8. doi: 10.1038/gene.2008.98. Epub 2009 Jan 8.

Molecular subtypes of systemic sclerosis in association with anti-centromere
antibodies and digital ulcers.

Bos CL(1), van Baarsen LG, Timmer TC, Overbeek MJ, Basoski NM, Rustenburg F,
Baggen JM, Thiesen HJ, Dijkmans BA, van der Pouw Kraan TC, Voskuyl AE, Verweij
CL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands.

The objective of this study was to identify molecular profiles that may
distinguish clinical subtypes in systemic sclerosis (SSc). Large-scale gene
expression profiling was performed on peripheral blood (PB) from 12 SSc patients 
and 6 healthy individuals. Significance analysis of microarrays, two-way
hierarchical cluster analysis and PANTHER (Protein ANalysis THrough Evolutionary 
Relationships) ontology classification were used to analyze the data.
Quantitative PCR was applied for validation in a cohort of 43 SSc patients. The
results show that the expression of genes involved in immune defense, cell cycle 
and signal transduction was significantly elevated in PB of SSc patients (n=12)
compared with healthy individuals (n=6). SSc patients could be stratified into
subgroups based on differential expression of genes induced by type I interferon 
(IFN) and genes involved in antimicrobial (AM) activity. Differential expression 
of type I IFN or AM signature genes was validated and extended in an independent 
cohort of 31 patients by quantitative PCR. Low expression of IFN response genes
was associated with the presence of anti-centromere antibodies, whereas increased
expression was associated with the appearance of digital ulcers. In conclusion,
patients with SSc can be classified on the basis of differential expression of
immune defense genes. Differences in the activity of the type I IFN response
program stratify patients into two clinically relevant subgroups.

DOI: 10.1038/gene.2008.98 
PMID: 19129850  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1429. J Vet Med Sci. 2008 Dec;70(12):1395-7.

Feline digital phaeohyphomycosis due to Exophiala jeanselmei.

Maeda H(1), Shibuya H, Yamaguchi Y, Miyoshi T, Irie M, Sato T.

Author information: 
(1)College of Bioresource Sciences, Nihon University, Kanagawa, Japan.

The black nodule measuring 1 cm in diameter developed in the base of nail of an
8-year-old Japanese domestic male cat. Histological examination of the excised
nodule revealed a granulomatous lesion extending from the epidermis to adjacent
bone. The lesion was consisted of diffuse infiltration of macrophages with
epithelioid cells and multinucleated giant cells. These macrophages contained a
few to numerous yeast-like brown pigmented fungus cells with a spherical shape
and dark thick wall. The PCR amplification with universal primers of the 28S
ribosomal RNA gene yielded a 628-bp fragment and the direct sequence confirmed
that the diagnosis of the lesion was phaeohyphomycosis caused by the pathogenic
dematiaceous fungus, Exophiala jeanselmei.


PMID: 19122414  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1430. Mol Reprod Dev. 2009 Jun;76(6):593-600. doi: 10.1002/mrd.20985.

Cloning, characterization and expression of zvep, a novel vitelline
envelope-specific gene in the zebrafish ovary.

Xu Y(1), Lei Y, Liu Q, Liu Y, Liu S, Cheng H, Deng F.

Author information: 
(1)The Laboratory of Molecular Genetics and Developmental Biology, College of
Life Sciences, Wuhan University, Hubei, China.

The egg envelope is a specialized extracellular matrix that surrounds and
protects the oocyte and plays significant roles in animal reproductive and
developmental processes. Using the NCBI digital differential display program we
identified an EST sequence (XM_001340234.1) acquired from zebrafish ovary cDNA
libraries in GeneBank. The full-length cDNA of this transcript was obtained by
3'and 5' RACE and further confirmed by PCR and sequencing. The full-length cDNA
of the novel gene is 2,720 bp and encodes a protein of 761 amino acids. RT-PCR
and Western blot analysis showed its expression in ovary and brain but not in
other tissues. In situ hybridization demonstrates that the mRNA is transcribed in
ooplasm of stage I, II, and III oocytes. Interestingly, immunohistochemistry on
zebrafish ovarian sections showed that protein expression in the vitelline
envelope was located to two thin positive lines in the stage III oocytes. These
ovarian expression patterns show that this is a new component of the vitelline
envelope that is synthesized during early developing oocytes. This protein was
named ZVEP (zebrafish vitelline envelope protein) and it did not have any
homology with other known vitelline envelope genes. Thus, we found that zvep is a
novel gene related to the vitelline envelope in zebrafish.

DOI: 10.1002/mrd.20985 
PMID: 19117036  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1431. Open Prost Cancer J. 2009 Jan 1;2:59-66.

Human Cell Surface Receptors as Molecular Imaging Candidates for Metastatic
Prostate Cancer.

Sroka IC(1), Pond GD, Nagle RB, Porreca F, King T, Pestano G, Futscher BW, Gard
JM, Riley J, Cress AE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85724.

Existing clinical imaging procedures lack sensitivity and specificity in
detecting early prostate cancer bone metastatic lesions. In this study, we
developed a highly reproducible bone metastasis xenograft model and identified
possible molecular imaging candidates for detecting early bone metastatic
lesions. Bone trophic human prostate cells (PC-3B1) were isolated and
characterized for their ability to reach bone after intracardiac injection into
SCID mice. The appearances of skeletal metastases were evaluated using digital
radiographic imaging and confirmed by necropsy and histology. The PC-3B1 cells
retain a bone homing phenotype after long term propagation in tissue culture and 
exhibit progressive bone lesions within 3 weeks following intracardiac injection.
Comparative transcription signatures of PC-3 and PC-3B1 cells were determined
using a cancer specific microarray and confirmed by RT-PCR analysis. The analysis
identified increased expression of four cell surface molecules in PC-3B1 cells
that may be suitable as molecular imaging candidates to detect bone micro
metastases.

DOI: 10.2174/1876822900902010059 
PMCID: PMC3212735
PMID: 22081777 


1432. Mol Vis. 2008;14:2499-508. Epub 2008 Dec 26.

The neurovascular relation in oxygen-induced retinopathy.

Akula JD(1), Mocko JA, Benador IY, Hansen RM, Favazza TL, Vyhovsky TC, Fulton AB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Children's Hospital Boston, Boston, MA 02115,
USA.

PURPOSE: Longitudinal studies in rat models of retinopathy of prematurity (ROP)
have demonstrated that abnormalities of retinal vasculature and function change
hand-in-hand. In the developing retina, vascular and neural structures are under 
cooperative molecular control. In this study of rats with oxygen-induced
retinopathy (OIR) models of ROP, mRNA expression of vascular endothelial growth
factor (VEGF), semaphorin (Sema), and their neuropilin receptor (NRP) were
examined during the course of retinopathy to evaluate their roles in the observed
neurovascular congruency.
METHODS: Oxygen exposures designed to induce retinopathy were delivered to
Sprague-Dawley rat pups (n=36) from postnatal day (P) 0 to P14 or from P7 to P14.
Room-air-reared controls (n=18) were also studied. Sensitivities of the rod
photoreceptors (S(rod)) and the postreceptor cells (Sm) were derived from
electroretinographic (ERG) records. Arteriolar tortuosity, T(A), was derived from
digital fundus images using Retinal Image multi-Scale Analysis (RISA) image
analysis software. mRNA expression of VEGF(164), semaphorin IIIA (Sema3A), and
neuropilin-1 (NRP-1) was evaluated by RT-PCR of retinal extracts. Tests were
performed at P15-P16, P18-P19, and P25-P26. Relations among ERG, RISA, and PCR
parameters were evaluated using linear regression on log transformed data.
RESULTS: Sm was low and T(A) was high at young ages, then both resolved by
P25-P26. VEGF(164) and Sema3A mRNA expression were also elevated early and
decreased with age. Low Sm was significantly associated with high VEGF(164) and
Sema3A expression. Low S(rod) was also significantly associated with high
VEGF(164). S(rod) and Sm were both correlated with T(A). NRP-1 expression was
little affected by OIR.
CONCLUSIONS: The postreceptor retina appears to mediate the vascular
abnormalities that characterize OIR. Because of the relationships revealed by
these data, early treatment that targets the neural retina may mitigate the
effects of ROP.


PMCID: PMC2610291
PMID: 19112532  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1433. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2008 Dec 23;105(51):20179-84. doi:
10.1073/pnas.0807121105. Epub 2008 Dec 16.

Determination of tag density required for digital transcriptome analysis:
application to an androgen-sensitive prostate cancer model.

Li H(1), Lovci MT, Kwon YS, Rosenfeld MG, Fu XD, Yeo GW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, University of California, San
Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, CA 92093-0651, USA.

High-throughput sequencing has rapidly gained popularity for transcriptome
analysis in mammalian cells because of its ability to generate digital and
quantitative information on annotated genes and to detect transcripts and mRNA
isoforms. Here, we described a double-random priming method for deep sequencing
to profile double poly(A)-selected RNA from LNCaP cells before and after androgen
stimulation. From approximately 20 million sequence tags, we uncovered 71% of
annotated genes and identified hormone-regulated gene expression events that are 
highly correlated with quantitative real time PCR measurement. A fraction of the 
sequence tags were mapped to constitutive and alternative splicing events to
detect known and new mRNA isoforms expressed in the cell. Finally, curve fitting 
was used to estimate the number of tags necessary to reach a "saturating"
discovery rate among individual applications. This study provides a general guide
for analysis of gene expression and alternative splicing by deep sequencing.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0807121105 
PMCID: PMC2603435
PMID: 19088194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1434. BMC Genomics. 2008 Dec 11;9:598. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-9-598.

Evaluating genome-wide DNA methylation changes in mice by Methylation Specific
Digital Karyotyping.

Boon K(1), Tomfohr JK, Bailey NW, Garantziotis S, Li Z, Brass DM, Maruoka S,
Hollingsworth JW, Schwartz DA.

Author information: 
(1)National Heart Lung and Blood Institute/National Institute of Environmental
Health Sciences, Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA. boonc@mail.nih.gov

BACKGROUND: The study of genome-wide DNA methylation changes has become more
accessible with the development of various array-based technologies though when
studying species other than human the choice of applications are limited and not 
always within reach. In this study, we adapted and tested the applicability of
Methylation Specific Digital Karyotyping (MSDK), a non-array based method, for
the prospective analysis of epigenetic changes after perinatal nutritional
modifications in a mouse model of allergic airway disease. MSDK is a sequenced
based method that allows a comprehensive and unbiased methylation profiling. The 
method generates 21 base pairs long sequence tags derived from specific locations
in the genome. The resulting tag frequencies determine in a quantitative manner
the methylation level of the corresponding loci.
RESULTS: Genomic DNA from whole lung was isolated and subjected to MSDK analysis 
using the methylation-sensitive enzyme Not I as the mapping enzyme and Nla III as
the fragmenting enzyme. In a pair wise comparison of the generated mouse MSDK
libraries we identified 158 loci that are significantly differentially methylated
(P-value = 0.05) after perinatal dietary changes in our mouse model. Quantitative
methylation specific PCR and sequence analysis of bisulfate modified genomic DNA 
confirmed changes in methylation at specific loci. Differences in genomic MSDK
tag counts for a selected set of genes, correlated well with changes in
transcription levels as measured by real-time PCR. Furthermore serial analysis of
gene expression profiling demonstrated a dramatic difference in expressed
transcripts in mice exposed to perinatal nutritional changes.
CONCLUSION: The genome-wide methylation survey applied in this study allowed for 
an unbiased methylation profiling revealing subtle changes in DNA methylation in 
mice maternally exposed to dietary changes in methyl-donor content. The MSDK
method is applicable for mouse models of complex human diseases in a mixed cell
population and might be a valuable technology to determine whether environmental 
exposures can lead to epigenetic changes.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-9-598 
PMCID: PMC2621211
PMID: 19077247  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1435. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2008 Dec 23;105(51):20458-63. doi:
10.1073/pnas.0810641105. Epub 2008 Dec 10.

Noninvasive prenatal diagnosis of fetal chromosomal aneuploidy by massively
parallel genomic sequencing of DNA in maternal plasma.

Chiu RW(1), Chan KC, Gao Y, Lau VY, Zheng W, Leung TY, Foo CH, Xie B, Tsui NB,
Lun FM, Zee BC, Lau TK, Cantor CR, Lo YM.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Research into Circulating Fetal Nucleic Acids, Li Ka Shing
Institute of Health Sciences, Department of Chemical Pathology, The Chinese
University of Hong Kong, Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong SAR, China.

Chromosomal aneuploidy is the major reason why couples opt for prenatal
diagnosis. Current methods for definitive diagnosis rely on invasive procedures, 
such as chorionic villus sampling and amniocentesis, and are associated with a
risk of fetal miscarriage. Fetal DNA has been found in maternal plasma but exists
as a minor fraction among a high background of maternal DNA. Hence, quantitative 
perturbations caused by an aneuploid chromosome in the fetal genome to the
overall representation of sequences from that chromosome in maternal plasma would
be small. Even with highly precise single molecule counting methods such as
digital PCR, a large number of DNA molecules and hence maternal plasma volume
would need to be analyzed to achieve the necessary analytical precision. Here we 
reasoned that instead of using approaches that target specific gene loci, the use
of a locus-independent method would greatly increase the number of target
molecules from the aneuploid chromosome that could be analyzed within the same
fixed volume of plasma. Hence, we used massively parallel genomic sequencing to
quantify maternal plasma DNA sequences for the noninvasive prenatal detection of 
fetal trisomy 21. Twenty-eight first and second trimester maternal plasma samples
were tested. All 14 trisomy 21 fetuses and 14 euploid fetuses were correctly
identified. Massively parallel plasma DNA sequencing represents a new approach
that is potentially applicable to all pregnancies for the noninvasive prenatal
diagnosis of fetal chromosomal aneuploidies.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0810641105 
PMCID: PMC2600580
PMID: 19073917  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1436. Vet Microbiol. 2009 Apr 14;136(1-2):192-6. doi: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2008.10.022.
Epub 2008 Oct 28.

Genetic diversity of bovine ulcerative mammary dermatitis-associated Treponema.

Stamm LV(1), Walker RL, Read DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC
27599-7435, USA. lstamm@email.unc.edu

The etiology of bovine ulcerative mammary dermatitis (UMD) is poorly
characterized. The goal of this study was to genetically analyze spirochetes
present in UMD lesions. DNA prepared from UMD lesion biopsies and from
spirochetes cultured from the corresponding lesion biopsies was PCR amplified
using primers for the 16S rDNA-tRNA(ile) intergenic spacer region (ISR) of
Treponema 16S-23S rDNA. Analysis of cloned ISR amplicons from three cultivable
UMD-associated spirochetes indicated that two isolates cluster closely with
cultivable papillomatous digital dermatitis (PDD)-associated and human-associated
Treponema phylotypes, while the remaining isolate is unique. Analysis of ISR
amplicons from UMD lesion biopsies identified additional not-yet-cultivable
Treponema phylotypes. Our results revealed the presence of a genetically diverse 
Treponema population in an UMD lesion.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2008.10.022 
PMID: 19059737  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1437. Hum Mutat. 2009 Feb;30(2):E320-9. doi: 10.1002/humu.20888.

Genomic deletions of OFD1 account for 23% of oral-facial-digital type 1 syndrome 
after negative DNA sequencing.

Thauvin-Robinet C(1), Franco B, Saugier-Veber P, Aral B, Gigot N, Donzel A, Van
Maldergem L, Bieth E, Layet V, Mathieu M, Teebi A, Lespinasse J, Callier P,
Mugneret F, Masurel-Paulet A, Gautier E, Huet F, Teyssier JR, Tosi M, Frébourg T,
Faivre L.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Génétique, Hôpital d'Enfants, CHU Dijon, France.
christel.thauvin@chu-dijon.fr

Oral-facial-digital type I syndrome (OFDI) is characterised by an X-linked
dominant mode of inheritance with lethality in males. Clinical features include
facial dysmorphism with oral, dental and distal abnormalities, polycystic kidney 
disease and central nervous system malformations. Considerable allelic
heterogeneity has been reported within the OFD1 gene, but DNA bi-directional
sequencing of the exons and intron-exon boundaries of the OFD1 gene remains
negative in more than 20% of cases. We hypothesized that genomic rearrangements
could account for the majority of the remaining undiagnosed cases. Thus, we took 
advantage of two independent available series of patients with OFDI syndrome and 
negative DNA bi-directional sequencing of the exons and intron-exon boundaries of
the OFD1 gene from two different European labs: 13/36 cases from the French lab; 
13/95 from the Italian lab. All patients were screened by a semiquantitative
fluorescent multiplex method (QFMPSF) and relative quantification by real-time
PCR (qPCR). Six OFD1 genomic deletions (exon 5, exons 1-8, exons 1-14, exons
10-11, exons 13-23 and exon 17) were identified, accounting for 5% of OFDI
patients and for 23% of patients with negative mutation screening by DNA
sequencing. The association of DNA direct sequencing, QFMPSF and qPCR detects
OFD1 alteration in up to 85% of patients with a phenotype suggestive of OFDI
syndrome. Given the average percentage of large genomic rearrangements (5%), we
suggest that dosage methods should be performed in addition to DNA direct
sequencing analysis to exclude the involvement of the OFD1 transcript when there 
are genetic counselling issues.

(c) 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/humu.20888 
PMID: 19023858  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1438. Epigenetics Chromatin. 2008 Nov 3;1(1):7. doi: 10.1186/1756-8935-1-7.

Rapid analysis of heterogeneously methylated DNA using digital
methylation-sensitive high resolution melting: application to the CDKN2B (p15)
gene.

Candiloro IL(1), Mikeska T, Hokland P, Dobrovic A.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Pathology Research and Development Laboratory, Department of
Pathology, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Melbourne, Victoria 8006, Australia.
ida.Candiloro@petermac.org

BACKGROUND: Methylation-sensitive high resolution melting (MS-HRM) methodology is
able to recognise heterogeneously methylated sequences by their characteristic
melting profiles. To further analyse heterogeneously methylated sequences, we
adopted a digital approach to MS-HRM (dMS-HRM) that involves the amplification of
single templates after limiting dilution to quantify and to determine the degree 
of methylation. We used this approach to study methylation of the CDKN2B (p15)
cell cycle progression inhibitor gene which is inactivated by DNA methylation in 
haematological malignancies of the myeloid lineage. Its promoter region usually
shows heterogeneous methylation and is only rarely fully methylated. The
methylation status of CDKN2B can be used as a biomarker of response to treatment.
Therefore the accurate characterisation of its methylation is desirable.
RESULTS: MS-HRM was used to assess CDKN2B methylation in acute myeloid leukaemia 
(AML) samples. All the AML samples that were methylated at the CDKN2B promoter
(40/93) showed varying degrees of heterogeneous methylation. Six representative
samples were selected for further study. dMS-HRM was used to simultaneously count
the methylated alleles and assess the degree of methylation. Direct sequencing of
selected dMS-HRM products was used to determine the exact DNA methylation pattern
and confirmed the degree of methylation estimated by dMS-HRM.
CONCLUSION: dMS-HRM is a powerful technique for the analysis of methylation in
CDKN2B and other heterogeneously methylated genes. It eliminates both PCR and
cloning bias towards either methylated or unmethylated DNA. Potentially complex
information is simplified into a digital output, allowing counting of methylated 
and unmethylated alleles and providing an overall picture of methylation at the
given locus. Downstream sequencing is minimised as dMS-HRM acts as a screen to
select only methylated clones for further analysis.

DOI: 10.1186/1756-8935-1-7 
PMCID: PMC2590600
PMID: 19014416 


1439. Gene. 2009 Jan 15;429(1-2):44-8. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2008.10.008. Epub 2008 Nov
1.

Characterization of mouse synaptic vesicle-2-associated protein (Msvop)
specifically expressed in the mouse central nervous system.

Cho EY(1), Lee CJ, Son KS, Kim YJ, Kim SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Science, Dongguk University, Seoul 100-715, Republic of
Korea.

In this study, we identified and characterized a mouse brain-enriched unigene
(msvop) after performing digital differential display. Msvop was the mouse
ortholog of Xenopus synaptic vesicle-2-associated protein (svop), the molecular
characteristics of which were unknown. The 3125-bp full-length cDNA encoded a
548-aa protein of approximately 60 kDa. A strong promoter element was found in
the -200 to -100 bp region in both NG108-15 and HEK293 cells. RT-PCR and in situ 
hybridization analysis confirmed that msvop was strictly expressed in the mouse
central nervous system. In adult brains, msvop was highly expressed in the
hippocampus and cerebellum. When the gene was transfected into HEK293 cells in a 
GFP fusion vector, the protein was specifically localized in the cytosol. These
results indicate that msvop is a central nervous system-specific gene and could
be utilized for elucidating gene regulation in neuronal cells.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2008.10.008 
PMID: 19013223  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1440. Prenat Diagn. 2008 Dec;28(12):1087-93. doi: 10.1002/pd.2150.

Digital PCR: a powerful new tool for noninvasive prenatal diagnosis?

Zimmermann BG(1), Grill S, Holzgreve W, Zhong XY, Jackson LG, Hahn S.

Author information: 
(1)Fluidigm Corporation, South San Francisco, USA.

Recent reports have indicated that digital PCR may be useful for the noninvasive 
detection of fetal aneuploidies by the analysis of cell-free DNA and RNA in
maternal plasma or serum. In this review we provide an insight into the
underlying technology and its previous application in the determination of the
allelic frequencies of oncogenic alterations in cancer specimens. We also provide
an indication of how this new technology may prove useful for the detection of
fetal aneuploidies and single gene Mendelian disorders.

Copyright (c) 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pd.2150 
PMID: 19003785  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1441. Clin Chem. 2008 Dec;54(12):2007-17. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2008.108845. Epub 2008 
Oct 23.

Performance of a single assay for both type III and type VI TMPRSS2:ERG fusions
in noninvasive prediction of prostate biopsy outcome.

Clark JP(1), Munson KW, Gu JW, Lamparska-Kupsik K, Chan KG, Yoshida JS, Kawachi
MH, Crocitto LE, Wilson TG, Feng Z, Smith SS.

Author information: 
(1)Kaplan Clinical Research Laboratory, City of Hope, Duarte, CA 91010-3000, USA.

BACKGROUND: TMPRSS2:ERG fusions are promising prostate cancer biomarkers. Because
they can occur in multiple forms in a single cancer specimen, we developed a
quantitative PCR test that detects both type III and type VI TMPRSS2:ERG fusions.
The assay is quantified from a standard curve determined with a plasmid-cloned
type III TMPRSS2:ERG fusion target.
METHODS: We collected expressed prostatic secretion (EPS) under an institutional 
review board-approved, blinded, prospective study from 74 patients undergoing
transrectal ultrasound-guided biopsy for prostate cancer. We compared the
characteristic performance of the test for type III and type VI TMPRSS2:ERG
fusions in predicting biopsy outcome and distinguishing between high and low
Gleason scores with similar tests for the expression of PCA3 and DNA methylation 
levels of the APC, RARB, RASSF1, and GSTP1 genes. We used logistic regression to 
analyze the effects of multiple biomarkers in linear combinations.
RESULTS: Each test provided a significant improvement in characteristic
performance over baseline digital rectal examination (DRE) plus serum
prostate-specific antigen (PSA); however, the test for type III and type VI
TMPRSS2:ERG fusions yielded the best performance in predicting biopsy outcome
[area under the curve (AUC) 0.823, 95% CI 0.728-0.919, P < 0.001] and Gleason
grade >7 (AUC 0.844, 95% CI 0.740-0.948, P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Although each test appears to have diagnostic value, PSA plus DRE
plus type III and type VI TMPRSS2:ERG provided the best diagnostic performance in
EPS specimens.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2008.108845 
PMCID: PMC2977928
PMID: 18948370  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1442. BMC Genomics. 2008 Oct 23;9:499. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-9-499.

In silico identification and molecular characterization of genes predominantly
expressed in the fish oocyte.

Bobe J(1), Nguyen T, Mahé S, Monget P.

Author information: 
(1)INRA, UR1337, IFR140, Ouest Genopole, Campus de Beaulieu, F-35000 Rennes,
France. julien.bobe@rennes.inra.fr

BACKGROUND: In fish, molecular mechanisms that control follicle-enclosed oocyte
progression throughout oogenesis and oocyte developmental competence acquisition 
remain poorly understood. Existing data in mammals have indicated that the so
called "oocyte-specific" genes play an important role in oogenesis,
fertilization, and early embryo development. In teleost species, very little is
known about "oocyte-specific" genes. The present study therefore aimed at
identifying and characterizing oocyte-specific genes in fish.
RESULTS: Using digital differential display PCR, mouse ESTs exhibiting an
oocyte-predominant expression were identified. Those murine ESTs were
subsequently used to identify cognate rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) ESTs
using a reciprocal Blast search strategy. In the present study we report the
identification of five previously uncharacterized rainbow trout cDNAs exhibiting 
a oocyte-specific, oocyte-predominant, or gonad-specific expression: zygote
arrest 1 (zar1), v-mos Moloney murine sarcoma viral oncogene-like protein (mos), 
B-cell translocation gene (btg3), growth differentiation factor 9 (gdf9), and
mutS homolog 4 (msh4). The orthology relationship of each of these genes with
vertebrate counterparts was verified by phylogenetic analysis. Among those five
genes, three had never been characterized in any fish species. In addition, we
report the oocyte-predominant expression of btg3 for the first time in any
vertebrate species. Finally, those five genes are present in unfertilized eggs as
maternally-inherited mRNAs thus suggesting that they could participate in ovarian
folliculogenesis as well as early embryonic development.
CONCLUSION: The expression patterns of zar1, mos, btg3, gdf9 and msh4 in rainbow 
trout and the functions of their orthologs in higher vertebrates strongly suggest
that they might play an important role in follicle-enclosed oocyte development,
meiosis control and early embryonic development in fish. Future investigations
are however required to unravel the participation of those strong candidates in
the molecular processes that control folliculogenesis and/or oocyte developmental
competence in fish.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-9-499 
PMCID: PMC2584112
PMID: 18947432  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1443. Phytopathology. 2007 Sep;97(9):1063-70. doi: 10.1094/PHYTO-97-9-1063.

Characterization and mapping of oat crown rust resistance genes using three
assessment methods.

Jackson EW, Obert DE, Menz M, Hu G, Avant JB, Chong J, Bonman JM.

ABSTRACT Resistance is the primary means of control for crown rust of oat (Avena 
sativa L.), caused by Puccinia coronata f. sp. avenae, and better knowledge of
the genetics of resistance will enhance resistance breeding. Disease data were
generated in the field and greenhouse for parents and recombinant inbred lines of
the Ogle/TAM O-301 (OT) oat mapping population using (i) a new quantitative assay
that employs quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (q-PCR) to estimate
fungal growth in the host, (ii) digital image analysis, and (iii) visual ratings.
The objectives of this study were to evaluate each assessment method's ability to
map a major gene from cv. Ogle and potential quantitative trait loci (QTL)
contributed by Ogle and TAM O-301. All three assessment methods identified the
major gene in Ogle, which was mapped to linkage group OT6. The resolution
produced by q-PCR, however, enabled more precise mapping of the major gene.
Quantitative analysis indicated that 64% of the phenotypic variation was
accounted for using q-PCR, whereas 41 and 52% were accounted for using visual and
digital assessments, respectively. Data generated by q-PCR permitted
identification of QTL on linkage groups OT32, accounting for 6% of the phenotypic
variation, and OT2, accounting for 4% of the variation. QTL on both OT32 and OT2 
were conferred by TAM O-301, one of which (OT2) was indiscernible using data from
the visual and digital assessments. The new method of precisely phenotyping crown
rust resistance provided a more accurate and thorough means of dissecting
resistance in the OT mapping population. Similar methods could be developed and
applied to other important cereal rust diseases.

DOI: 10.1094/PHYTO-97-9-1063 
PMID: 18944171 


1444. Phytopathology. 2005 Oct;95(10):1137-43. doi: 10.1094/PHYTO-95-1137.

Identification of individual powdery mildew fungi infecting leaves and direct
detection of gene expression by single conidium polymerase chain reaction.

Matsuda Y, Sameshima T, Moriura N, Inoue K, Nonomura T, Kakutani K, Nishimura H, 
Kusakari S, Takamatsu S, Toyoda H.

ABSTRACT Greenhouse-grown tomato seedlings were inoculated naturally with two
genera of powdery mildew conidia forming appressorial germ tubes that could not
be differentiated by length alone. For direct identification, single germinated
conidia were removed from leaves by means of a glass pipette linked to the
manipulator of a high-fidelity digital microscope. This microscope enabled in
vivo observation of the fungi without leaf decoloration or fungal staining. The
isolated conidia were subjected to PCR amplification of the 5.8S rDNA and its
adjacent internal transcribed spacer sequences followed by nested PCR to attain
sensitivity high enough to amplify target nucleotide sequences (PCR/nested PCR). 
Target sequences from the conidia were completely coincident with those of the
pathogen Oidium neolycopersici or Erysiphe trifolii (syn. Microsphaera trifolii),
which is nonpathogenic on tomato. Using RT-PCR/nested PCR or multiplex
RT-PCR/nested PCR, it was possible to amplify transcripts expressed in single
conidia. Conidia at pre- and postgermination stages were removed individually
from tomato leaves, and two powdery mildew genes were monitored. The results
indicated that the beta-tubulin homolog TUB2-ol was expressed at pre- and
postgermination stages and the cutinase homolog CUT1-ol was only expressed
postgermination. Combining digital microscopic micromanipulation and two-step PCR
amplification is thus useful for investigation of individual propagules on the
surface of plants.

DOI: 10.1094/PHYTO-95-1137 
PMID: 18943465 


1445. Acta Vet Scand. 2008 Oct 20;50:40. doi: 10.1186/1751-0147-50-40.

Isolation and characterization of Treponema phagedenis-like spirochetes from
digital dermatitis lesions in Swedish dairy cattle.

Pringle M(1), Bergsten C, Fernström LL, Höök H, Johansson KE.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biomedical Sciences and Veterinary Public Health, Swedish University
of Agricultural Sciences, Box 7009, SE-75007 Uppsala, Sweden.
marit.pringle@bvf.slu.se

BACKGROUND: Digital dermatitis in cattle is an emerging infectious disease.
Ulcerative lesions are typically located on the plantar skin between the heel
bulbs and adjacent to the coronet. Spirochetes of the genus Treponema are found
in high numbers in the lesions and are likely to be involved in the pathogenesis.
The aim of this study was to obtain pure cultures of spirochetes from cattle with
digital dermatitis and to describe them further.
METHODS: Tissue samples and swabs from active digital dermatitis lesions were
used for culturing. Pure isolates were subjected to, molecular typing through 16S
rRNA gene sequencing, pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE), random amplified
polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and an intergenic spacer PCR developed for Treponema spp. 
as well as API-ZYM and antimicrobial susceptibility tests. The antimicrobial
agents used were tiamulin, valnemulin, tylosin, aivlosin, lincomycin and
doxycycline.
RESULTS: Seven spirochete isolates from five herds were obtained. Both 16S rRNA
gene sequences, which were identical except for three polymorphic nucleotide
positions, and the intergenic spacer PCR indicated that all isolates were of one 
yet unnamed species, most closely related to Treponema phagedenis. The enzymatic 
profile and antimicrobial susceptibility pattern were also similar for all
isolates. However it was possible to separate the isolates through their PFGE and
RAPD banding pattern.
CONCLUSION: This is the first report on isolation of a Treponema sp. from cattle 
with digital dermatitis in Scandinavia. The phylotype isolated has previously
been cultured from samples from cattle in the USA and the UK and is closely
related to T. phagedenis. While very similar, the isolates in this study were
possible to differentiate through PFGE and RAPD indicating that these methods are
suitable for subtyping of this phylotype. No antimicrobial resistance could be
detected among the tested isolates.

DOI: 10.1186/1751-0147-50-40 
PMCID: PMC2576277
PMID: 18937826  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1446. Nucleic Acids Res. 2008 Dec;36(21):e141. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkn705. Epub 2008 Oct
15.

Deep sequencing-based expression analysis shows major advances in robustness,
resolution and inter-lab portability over five microarray platforms.

't Hoen PA(1), Ariyurek Y, Thygesen HH, Vreugdenhil E, Vossen RH, de Menezes RX, 
Boer JM, van Ommen GJ, den Dunnen JT.

Author information: 
(1)The Center for Human and Clinical Genetics, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands. p.a.c.hoen@lumc.nl

The hippocampal expression profiles of wild-type mice and mice transgenic for
deltaC-doublecortin-like kinase were compared with Solexa/Illumina deep
sequencing technology and five different microarray platforms. With Illumina's
digital gene expression assay, we obtained approximately 2.4 million sequence
tags per sample, their abundance spanning four orders of magnitude. Results were 
highly reproducible, even across laboratories. With a dedicated Bayesian model,
we found differential expression of 3179 transcripts with an estimated
false-discovery rate of 8.5%. This is a much higher figure than found for
microarrays. The overlap in differentially expressed transcripts found with deep 
sequencing and microarrays was most significant for Affymetrix. The changes in
expression observed by deep sequencing were larger than observed by microarrays
or quantitative PCR. Relevant processes such as calmodulin-dependent protein
kinase activity and vesicle transport along microtubules were found affected by
deep sequencing but not by microarrays. While undetectable by microarrays,
antisense transcription was found for 51% of all genes and alternative
polyadenylation for 47%. We conclude that deep sequencing provides a major
advance in robustness, comparability and richness of expression profiling data
and is expected to boost collaborative, comparative and integrative genomics
studies.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkn705 
PMCID: PMC2588528
PMID: 18927111  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1447. Theriogenology. 2009 Feb;71(3):441-9. doi: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2008.07.028. 
Epub 2008 Sep 24.

Cloning and characterization of a novel oocyte-specific gene zorg in zebrafish.

Dai L(1), Ma W, Li J, Xu Y, Li W, Zhao Y, Deng F.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of MOE for Developmental Biology, College of Life Sciences,
Wuhan University, Wuhan, Hubei, China.

Genes specifically expressed in oocytes are important for the development of both
germ cells and embryos. Using the digital differential display program from the
NCBI, we identified a novel EST sequence (no. DT881820) from zebrafish ovary
libraries in the GenBank. The full-length cDNA of this transcript was obtained by
performing 3'- and 5'-RACE and was confirmed by PCR and direct sequencing
methods. The cDNA clone for this novel gene consisted of 894 base pairs and
encoded a protein with 215 amino acids. Since this protein shared no significant 
homology with any other known proteins, we have named this gene zorg (zebrafish
oogenesis related gene). Based on RT-PCR analysis, this gene was specially
expressed in the ovary and was abundantly present at the blastula stage. However,
the level of expression decreased significantly during the early gastrula
periods. Based on whole-mount in situ hybridization studies, zorg transcripts
were uniformly distributed in the cleavage stage through to the blastula stage.
In addition, during early gastrulation, zorg transcripts appeared in the dorsal
region, but became restricted to the primordial germ cells (PGC) in early
somitogenesis and remained visible in PGC as they migrated towards the region of 
the gonad of embryos 24h post-fertilization. In situ hybridization of sectioned
ovaries demonstrated that zorg mRNAs appeared in the cytoplasm of stage I and
stage II oocytes and localized in the cortex of stage III and stage IV oocytes
during oogenesis. We hypothesized that the protein expressed from the zebrafish
zorg gene has roles in the formation of the female germ cells and in early
embryonic development in zebrafish.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2008.07.028 
PMID: 18817964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1448. J Pathol. 2008 Nov;216(3):307-16. doi: 10.1002/path.2413.

Microdissection molecular copy-number counting (microMCC)--unlocking cancer
archives with digital PCR.

McCaughan F(1), Darai-Ramqvist E, Bankier AT, Konfortov BA, Foster N, George PJ, 
Rabbitts TH, Kost-Alimova M, Rabbitts PH, Dear PH.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Respiratory Research, Department of Medicine, Royal Free and
University College Medical School, The Rayne Institute, London WC1E 6JJ, UK.

Most cancer genomes are characterized by the gain or loss of copies of some
sequences through deletion, amplification or unbalanced translocations.
Delineating and quantifying these changes is important in understanding the
initiation and progression of cancer, in identifying novel therapeutic targets,
and in the diagnosis and prognosis of individual patients. Conventional methods
for measuring copy-number are limited in their ability to analyse large numbers
of loci, in their dynamic range and accuracy, or in their ability to analyse
small or degraded samples. This latter limitation makes it difficult to access
the wealth of fixed, archived material present in clinical collections, and also 
impairs our ability to analyse small numbers of selected cells from biopsies.
Molecular copy-number counting (MCC), a digital PCR technique, has been used to
delineate a non-reciprocal translocation using good quality DNA from a renal
carcinoma cell line. We now demonstrate microMCC, an adaptation of MCC which
allows the precise assessment of copy number variation over a significant dynamic
range, in template DNA extracted from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded clinical
biopsies. Further, microMCC can accurately measure copy number variation at
multiple loci, even when applied to picogram quantities of grossly degraded DNA
extracted after laser capture microdissection of fixed specimens. Finally, we
demonstrate the power of microMCC to precisely interrogate cancer genomes, in a
way not currently feasible with other methodologies, by defining the position of 
a junction between an amplified and non-amplified genomic segment in a bronchial 
carcinoma. This has tremendous potential for the exploitation of archived
resources for high-resolution targeted cancer genomics and in the future for
interrogating multiple loci in cancer diagnostics or prognostics.

(c) 2008 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John
Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/path.2413 
PMID: 18773450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1449. Environ Sci Technol. 2008 Aug 15;42(16):6058-64.

Development of microbial genome-probing microarrays using digital multiple
displacement amplification of uncultivated microbial single cells.

Chang HW(1), Sung Y, Kim KH, Nam YD, Roh SW, Kim MS, Jeon CO, Bae JW.

Author information: 
(1)Biological Resources Center, KRIBB, Daejeon 305-806, Korea.

Erratum in
    Environ Sci Technol. 2008 Nov 15;42(22):8614.

A crucial problem in the use of previously developed genome-probing microarrays
(GPM) has been the inability to use uncultivated bacterial genomes to take
advantage of the high sensitivity and specificity of GPM in microbial detection
and monitoring. We show here a method, digital multiple displacement
amplification (MDA), to amplify and analyze various genomes obtained from single 
uncultivated bacterial cells. We used 15 genomes from key microbes involved in
dichloromethane (DCM)-dechlorinating enrichment as microarray probes to uncover
the bacterial population dynamics of samples without PCR amplification. Genomic
DNA amplified from single cells originating from uncultured bacteria with
80.3-99.4% similarity to 16S rRNA genes of cultivated bacteria. The digital
MDA-GPM method successfully monitored the dynamics of DCM-dechlorinating
communities from different phases of enrichment status. Without a priori
knowledge of microbial diversity, the digital MDA-GPM method could be designed to
monitor most microbial populations in a given environmental sample.


PMID: 18767666  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1450. PLoS One. 2008 Aug 20;3(8):e2990. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0002990.

OPCML is a broad tumor suppressor for multiple carcinomas and lymphomas with
frequently epigenetic inactivation.

Cui Y(1), Ying Y, van Hasselt A, Ng KM, Yu J, Zhang Q, Jin J, Liu D, Rhim JS, Rha
SY, Loyo M, Chan AT, Srivastava G, Tsao GS, Sellar GC, Sung JJ, Sidransky D, Tao 
Q.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory in Oncology in South China, Sir YK Pao Center for Cancer,
Department of Clinical Oncology, Hong Kong Cancer Institute, Chinese University
of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2008;3(9). doi:
10.1371/annotation/f394b95b-c731-41a3-b0dc-be25fb6a227c.

BACKGROUND: Identification of tumor suppressor genes (TSGs) silenced by CpG
methylation uncovers the molecular mechanism of tumorigenesis and potential tumor
biomarkers. Loss of heterozygosity at 11q25 is common in multiple tumors
including nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). OPCML, located at 11q25, is one of the 
downregulated genes we identified through digital expression subtraction.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Semi-quantitative RT-PCR showed frequent OPCML
silencing in NPC and other common tumors, with no homozygous deletion detected by
multiplex differential DNA-PCR. Instead, promoter methylation of OPCML was
frequently detected in multiple carcinoma cell lines (nasopharyngeal, esophageal,
lung, gastric, colon, liver, breast, cervix, prostate), lymphoma cell lines
(non-Hodgkin and Hodgkin lymphoma, nasal NK/T-cell lymphoma) and primary tumors, 
but not in any non-tumor cell line and seldom weakly methylated in normal
epithelial tissues. Pharmacological and genetic demethylation restored OPCML
expression, indicating a direct epigenetic silencing. We further found that OPCML
is stress-responsive, but this response is epigenetically impaired when its
promoter becomes methylated. Ecotopic expression of OPCML led to significant
inhibition of both anchorage-dependent and -independent growth of carcinoma cells
with endogenous silencing.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Thus, through functional epigenetics, we identified
OPCML as a broad tumor suppressor, which is frequently inactivated by methylation
in multiple malignancies.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0002990 
PMCID: PMC2500176
PMID: 18714356  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1451. Nucleic Acids Res. 2008 Oct;36(18):e116. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkn518. Epub 2008 Aug
18.

Studying copy number variations using a nanofluidic platform.

Qin J(1), Jones RC, Ramakrishnan R.

Author information: 
(1)Fluidigm Corporation, South San Francisco, CA 94080, USA.

Copy number variations (CNVs) in the human genome are conventionally detected
using high-throughput scanning technologies, such as comparative genomic
hybridization and high-density single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) microarrays, 
or relatively low-throughput techniques, such as quantitative polymerase chain
reaction (PCR). All these approaches are limited in resolution and can at best
distinguish a twofold (or 50%) difference in copy number. We have developed a new
technology to study copy numbers using a platform known as the digital array, a
nanofluidic biochip capable of accurately quantitating genes of interest in DNA
samples. We have evaluated the digital array's performance using a model system, 
to show that this technology is exquisitely sensitive, capable of differentiating
as little as a 15% difference in gene copy number (or between 6 and 7 copies of a
target gene). We have also analyzed commercial DNA samples for their CYP2D6 copy 
numbers and confirmed that our results were consistent with those obtained
independently using conventional techniques. In a screening experiment with
breast cancer and normal DNA samples, the ERBB2 gene was found to be amplified in
about 35% of breast cancer samples. The use of the digital array enables accurate
measurement of gene copy numbers and is of significant value in CNV studies.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkn518 
PMCID: PMC2566873
PMID: 18710881  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1452. Clin Chem. 2008 Oct;54(10):1664-72. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2008.111385. Epub 2008 
Aug 14.

Microfluidics digital PCR reveals a higher than expected fraction of fetal DNA in
maternal plasma.

Lun FM(1), Chiu RW, Chan KC, Leung TY, Lau TK, Lo YM.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Research into Circulating Fetal Nucleic Acids, Li Ka Shing
Institute of Health Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, New
Territories, Hong Kong.

BACKGROUND: The precise measurement of cell-free fetal DNA in maternal plasma
facilitates noninvasive prenatal diagnosis of fetal chromosomal aneuploidies and 
other applications. We tested the hypothesis that microfluidics digital PCR, in
which individual fetal-DNA molecules are counted, could enhance the precision of 
measuring circulating fetal DNA.
METHODS: We first determined whether microfluidics digital PCR, real-time PCR,
and mass spectrometry produced different estimates of male-DNA concentrations in 
artificial mixtures of male and female DNA. We then focused on comparing the
imprecision of microfluidics digital PCR with that of a well-established
nondigital PCR assay for measuring male fetal DNA in maternal plasma.
RESULTS: Of the tested platforms, microfluidics digital PCR demonstrated the
least quantitative bias for measuring the fractional concentration of male DNA.
This assay had a lower imprecision and higher clinical sensitivity compared with 
nondigital real-time PCR. With the ZFY/ZFX assay on the microfluidics digital PCR
platform, the median fractional concentration of fetal DNA in maternal plasma was
> or =2 times higher for all 3 trimesters of pregnancy than previously reported.
CONCLUSIONS: Microfluidics digital PCR represents an improvement over previous
methods for quantifying fetal DNA in maternal plasma, enabling diagnostic and
research applications requiring precise quantification. This approach may also
impact other diagnostic applications of plasma nucleic acids, e.g., in oncology
and transplantation.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2008.111385 
PMID: 18703764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1453. PLoS One. 2008 Aug 6;3(8):e2876. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0002876.

Mathematical analysis of copy number variation in a DNA sample using digital PCR 
on a nanofluidic device.

Dube S(1), Qin J, Ramakrishnan R.

Author information: 
(1)Fluidigm Corporation, South San Francisco, California, United States of
America. simant.dube@fluidigm.com

Copy Number Variations (CNVs) of regions of the human genome have been associated
with multiple diseases. We present an algorithm which is mathematically sound and
computationally efficient to accurately analyze CNV in a DNA sample utilizing a
nanofluidic device, known as the digital array. This numerical algorithm is
utilized to compute copy number variation and the associated statistical
confidence interval and is based on results from probability theory and
statistics. We also provide formulas which can be used as close approximations.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0002876 
PMCID: PMC2483940
PMID: 18682853  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1454. Nan Fang Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2008 Jul;28(7):1151-3.

[Cloning of Rcet3, a novel gene related to family 2 cystatins].

[Article in Chinese]

Xiang Y(1), Zou SC, Ou XL, Zhou MQ.

Author information: 
(1)College of Biotechnology, Southern Medical University, Guangdong 510515,
China. xiangyang_bio@ 126.com

OBJECTIVE: To clone the full-length Rcet3 gene, a novel gene related to family 2 
cystatins, from mouse testis or other tissues.
METHODS: Rcet3 gene was cloned using digital differential display (DDD) and
RT-PCR was performed for cloning the full-length Rcet3 gene from adult mouse
testis cDNA library with sequence analysis.
RESULTS: Rcet3 cDNA was 610 bp in length, consisting of 4 exons to encode a
protein with 140 amino acid residues. The encoded protein contained a potential
signal peptide and a cystatin domain, but lacked critical consensus site
important for cysteine protease inhibition. These characteristics could be seen
in the Cres subgroup related to the family 2 cystatins. Rcet3 was specifically
expressed in adult mouse testis, epididymis and the cerebrum, but at higher
levels in the testis than in the epididymis and cerebrum.
CONCLUSION: Rcet3 may be a new member of Cres subgroup of family 2 cystatins.


PMID: 18676249  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1455. Nucleic Acids Res. 2008 Aug;36(14):4689-98. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkn455. Epub 2008
Jul 15.

DNA methylation analysis by digital bisulfite genomic sequencing and digital
MethyLight.

Weisenberger DJ(1), Trinh BN, Campan M, Sharma S, Long TI, Ananthnarayan S, Liang
G, Esteva FJ, Hortobagyi GN, McCormick F, Jones PA, Laird PW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Southern California/Norris Comprehensive 
Cancer Center, Los Angeles, CA 90033, USA.

Alterations in cytosine-5 DNA methylation are frequently observed in most types
of human cancer. Although assays utilizing PCR amplification of
bisulfite-converted DNA are widely employed to analyze these DNA methylation
alterations, they are generally limited in throughput capacity, detection
sensitivity, and or resolution. Digital PCR, in which a DNA sample is analyzed in
distributive fashion over multiple reaction chambers, allows for enumeration of
discrete template DNA molecules, as well as sequestration of non-specific primer 
annealing templates into negative chambers, thereby increasing the
signal-to-noise ratio in positive chambers. Here, we have applied digital PCR
technology to bisulfite-converted DNA for single-molecule high-resolution DNA
methylation analysis and for increased sensitivity DNA methylation detection. We 
developed digital bisulfite genomic DNA sequencing to efficiently determine
single-basepair DNA methylation patterns on single-molecule DNA templates without
an interim cloning step. We also developed digital MethyLight, which surpasses
traditional MethyLight in detection sensitivity and quantitative accuracy for low
quantities of DNA. Using digital MethyLight, we identified single-molecule,
cancer-specific DNA hypermethylation events in the CpG islands of RUNX3, CLDN5
and FOXE1 present in plasma samples from breast cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkn455 
PMCID: PMC2504308
PMID: 18628296  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1456. Mol Biol Rep. 2009 May;36(5):1203-9. doi: 10.1007/s11033-008-9298-0. Epub 2008
Jun 27.

Molecular cloning and expression profile analysis of a novel mouse
testis-specific expression gene mtIQ1.

Nie D(1), Yang X, Yankai Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Hunan Institute of Science
and Technology, YueYang, Hunan, China. ndz1997@126.com

A novel testis-specific gene termed mtIQ1 (GenBank Accession No. DQ153246) was
identified by digital differential display. Sequence analysis revealed that mtIQ1
protein is a new member of calmodulin (CaM) binding protein families with
conserved Ile and Gln residues (IQ motif). RT-PCR and Northern blot analysis
revealed that a 0.9 kb mtIQ1 transcript was only expressed in adult mouse testis 
and not expressed in nine other tissues. The expression of mtIQ1 mRNA was
developmentally upregulated in the testes during sexual maturation and was,
conversely, downregulated by experimental cryptorchidism in vivo. The green
fluorescence produced by pEGFP-C3/mtIQ1 was detected mainly in the nucleus of
GC-1 cells 24 h post-transfection. Results of in situ hybridization assay
confirmed that mtIQ1 was expressed in seminiferous tubules, more precisely in
spermatocytes. The testis-specific and time-dependent expression pattern of mtIQ1
in postnatal mouse testes suggested that it might be involved in the regulation
of spermatogenesis and sperm maturation.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-008-9298-0 
PMID: 18584305  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1457. Tissue Cell. 2008 Dec;40(6):425-35. doi: 10.1016/j.tice.2008.04.003. Epub 2008
Jun 24.

Quantitative dimensions of histopathological attributes and status of GSTM1-GSTT1
in oral submucous fibrosis.

Pal M(1), Chaudhuri SR, Jadav A, Banerjee S, Paul RR, Dutta PK, Ghosh B,
Chatterjee J, Chaudhuri K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology, Guru Nanak Institute of Dental
Science and Research, Panihati, Kolkata 700114, West Bengal, India.

Oral submucous fibrosis (OSF) is a precancerous condition of the oral cavity and 
oropharynx and a significant number of such cases transform into oral squamous
cell carcinoma (OSCC). Presently, diagnosis of OSF is done mainly through
qualitative histopathological techniques and in the level of diagnostic molecular
biology no specific genetic marker is evident. Keeping these facts in mind this
study evaluates histopathological changes in the epithelium and subepithelial
connective tissue of OSF through quantitative digital image analysis in respect
to specific candidate features and analyses null mutations in the GSTM1 and GSTT1
by PCR amplification. The analysis revealed that there are subtle quantitative
differences in the histological images of OSF compared to NOM. The thickness of
the epithelium and cell population in its different zones, radius of curvature of
rete-ridges and connective tissue papillae were decreased but length of
rete-ridges and connective tissue papillae, fibrocity and the number of cellular 
components (predominantly inflammatory cells) in the subepithelial connective
tissue were increased in OSF. The PCR study revealed that there is no significant
difference in the allelic variants in GSTM1 between OSF and normal, while GSTT1
null gene showed significantly higher frequencies in this precancerous condition.
This study establishes a distinct quantitative difference between normal oral
mucosa (NOM) and OSF in respect to their histological features and GST null gene 
frequencies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tice.2008.04.003 
PMID: 18573513  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1458. Amino Acids. 2009 Mar;36(3):587-90. doi: 10.1007/s00726-008-0112-z. Epub 2008 Jun
11.

Localization and expression of serine racemase in Arabidopsis thaliana.

Sugimoto M(1), Sakamoto W, Fujitani Y.

Author information: 
(1)Group of Cytomolecular Biochemistry, Research Institute for Bioresources,
Okayama University, 2-20-1 Chuo, Kurashiki, Okayama 710-0046, Japan.
manabus@rib.okayama-u.ac.jp

Arabidopsis plants transformed by promoter of A. thaliana serine racemase fused
with beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene showed strong GUS staining in
elongating and developing cells such as tip regions of primary and lateral roots,
developing leaves, and shoot meristems. RT-PCR and digital northern hybridization
showed that expression of the serine racemase gene was not induced by L- and
D-serine, light irradiation, biotic and abiotic stresses.

DOI: 10.1007/s00726-008-0112-z 
PMID: 18546053  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1459. Zhongguo Zhong Xi Yi Jie He Za Zhi. 2008 Apr;28(4):348-51.

[Regulatory function of Shen-reinforcing and qi-supplementing drugs on
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and interleukin-6 dysfunction in asthmatic
rats].

[Article in Chinese]

Gong ZH(1), Dong JC, Xie JY.

Author information: 
(1)Lab of Integrative Medicine for Lung, Inflammation and Cancers, Huashan
Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effect of Shen-reinforcing and qi-supplementing (SRQS)
drugs on some ingredients of neuro-endocrine-immune (NEI) network in asthma rat
model.
METHODS: Asthma model was established by ovalbumin sensitization and long-term
excitation. Forty healthy Brown Norway rats of clean grade were randomly divided 
into 4 groups by randomized digital table, the normal control group and the three
treated groups treated by low, moderate and high dose of SRQS drugs respectively.
Blood content of adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) was detected by RIA;
interleukin-6 (IL-6) and corticosterone were determined by ELISA; and the mRNA
expresion of corticosteroid release hormone (CRH) in hypothalamus was tested by
Realtime-PCR.
RESULTS: Eosinophile inflammation was shown in the pathology of asthma model
rats, and also shown a multiple level hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA
axis) disorder at the repeated attack of asthma. After treatment, levels of ACTH 
and CRH mRNA expression in the treated groups were significantly higher than
those in the control group (P <0.05), but the corticosterone only showed a rising
tendency. Level of IL-6 increased during the episode, showing a significant
negative correlation with ACTH (r = - 0.325, P = 0.043), and had somewhat
reduction after SRQS treatment.
CONCLUSION: SRQS drugs could improve the function of HPH axis independent of
IL-6, suggesting that the action is possibly targeted on the neuro-endocrine
axis, which might be the hypothalamus.


PMID: 18543491  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1460. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2008;617:331-9. doi: 10.1007/978-0-387-69080-3_31.

In silico and in vitro analysis of small breast epithelial mucin as a marker for 
bone marrow micrometastasis in breast cancer.

Ayerbes MV(1), Díaz-Prado S, Ayude D, Campelo RG, Iglesias P, Haz M, Medina V,
Gallegos I, Quindós M, Aparicio LA.

Author information: 
(1)PINAR 6 BIS 4G, Madrid, Spain.

Molecular signatures associated with malignant phenotype would be useful for
detection of micrometastatic carcinoma cells. The small breast epithelial mucin
(SBEM) gene is predicted to code for a low molecular weight glycoprotein. To
evaluate its potential role as a marker for bone marrow (BM) micrometastasis in
breast cancer (BC) patients, we have studied in silico and in vitro expression
profiles of SBEM gene. Digital SBEM expression in libraries obtained from normal 
and neoplastic tissues and cell-lines (CL) were displayed and counted on the SAGE
Anatomic Viewer. Profiles for cytokeratin-19 and mammaglobin (hMAM), commonly
targets used for detection of disseminated BC cells were obtained and compared
with SBEM data. Human breast and haematopoietic cancer CL and normal BM were
examined by RT-PCR for SBEM and hMAM. Bioinformatics tools were used to gain
further insights about the biological role of SBEM in normal breast and BC. Genes
with expression patterns in breast libraries correlating with SBEM were
identified using two-dimensional display. SBEM tag was detected in 40 libraries
(21 BC; 8 non-cancerous breast tissues). Intermediate to high expression was
found on 15/21 BC libraries and 7/8 non-tumor breast tissue. SBEM tag count was
correlated with ERBB2 (0.662), hMAM (0.409), and RRM2 (-0.379). A model system
based on RT-PCR for SBEM mRNA was highly sensitive and specific in order to
detect isolated tumor cells. Our results demonstrate that SBEM mRNA may be an imp
ortant marker for targeting BC micrometastasis.

DOI: 10.1007/978-0-387-69080-3_31 
PMID: 18497056  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1461. J Orthop Res. 2008 Nov;26(11):1520-5. doi: 10.1002/jor.20633.

Tumor interstitial fluid pressure may regulate angiogenic factors in
osteosarcoma.

Nathan SS(1), Huvos AG, Casas-Ganem JE, Yang R, Linkov I, Sowers R, DiResta GR,
Gorlick R, Healey JH.

Author information: 
(1)Musculoskeletal Oncology Service, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Yong Loo 
Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, 5, Lower Kent Ridge
Road, Singapore 119074, Singapore.

We have previously shown that osteosarcomas (OS) have states of increased
interstitial fluid pressure (IFP), which correlate with increased proliferation
and chemosensitivity. In this study, we hypothesized that constitutively raised
IFP in OS regulates angiogenesis. Sixteen patients with the clinical diagnosis of
OS underwent blood flow and IFP readings by the wick-in-needle method at the time
and location of open biopsy. Vascularity was determined by capillary density in
the biopsy specimens. We performed digital image analysis of immunohistochemical 
staining for CD31, VEGF-A, VEGF-C, and TPA on paraffin-embedded tissue blocks of 
the biopsy samples. Clinical results were validated in a pressurized cell culture
system. Interstitial fluid pressures in the tumors (mean 33.5 +/- SD 17.2 mmHg)
were significantly higher (p = 0.00001) than that in normal tissue (2.9 +/- 5.7
mmHg). Pressure readings were significantly higher in low vascularity tumors
compared to high vascularity tumors (p < 0.001). In the OS cell lines, growth in 
a pressurized environment was associated with VEGF-A downregulation, VEGF-C
upregulation, and TPA upregulation. The reverse was seen in the OB cell line.
Growth in the HUVEC cell line was not significantly inhibited in a pressurized
environment. Immunohistochemical assessment for VEGF-A (p = 0.01), VEGF-C (p =
0.008), and TPA (p = 0.0001) translation were consistent with the findings on
PCR. Our data suggests that some molecules in angiogenesis are regulated by
changes in IFP.

(c) 2008 Orthopaedic Research Society. Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jor.20633 
PMID: 18473395  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1462. Toxicol Sci. 2008 Jul;104(1):135-43. doi: 10.1093/toxsci/kfn078. Epub 2008 Apr
14.

Trichloroethylene disrupts cardiac gene expression and calcium homeostasis in rat
myocytes.

Caldwell PT(1), Thorne PA, Johnson PD, Boitano S, Runyan RB, Selmin O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Science & Microbiology, University of Arizona,
Tucson, Arizona 85721, USA.

We have been investigating the molecular mechanisms by which trichloroethylene
(TCE) might induce cardiac malformations in the embryonic heart. Previous results
indicated that TCE disrupted expression of genes encoding proteins involved in
regulation of intracellular Ca2+, [Ca2+](i), in cardiac cells, including
ryanodine receptor isoform 2 (Ryr2), and sarcoendoplasmatic reticulum Ca2+
ATPase, Serca2a. These observations are important in light of the notion that
altered cardiac contractility can produce morphological defects. The hypothesis
tested in this study is that the TCE-induced changes in gene expression of
Ca2+-associated proteins resulted in altered Ca2+ flux regulation. We used
real-time PCR and digital imaging microscopy to characterize effects of various
doses of TCE on gene expression and Ca2+ response to vasopressin (VP) in rat
cardiac H9c2 myocytes. We observed a reduction in Serca2a and Ryr2 expression at 
12 and 48 h after exposure to TCE. In addition, we found significant differences 
in Ca2+ response to VP in cells treated with TCE doses as low as 10 parts per
billion. Taken all together, our data strongly indicate that exposure to TCE
disrupts the ability of myocytes to regulate cellular Ca2+ fluxes. Perturbation
of calcium signaling alters cardiac cell physiology and signal transduction and
may hint to morphogenetic consequences in the context of heart development. These
results point to a novel area of TCE biology and, if confirmed in vivo, may help 
to explain the apparent cardio-specific toxicity of TCE exposure in the rodent
embryo.

DOI: 10.1093/toxsci/kfn078 
PMCID: PMC4001797
PMID: 18411232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1463. Childs Nerv Syst. 2008 Aug;24(8):893-900. doi: 10.1007/s00381-008-0595-7. Epub
2008 Mar 19.

Identification of candidate cancer genes involved in human retinoblastoma by data
mining.

Yang J(1), Zhao JJ, Zhu Y, Xiong W, Lin JY, Ma X.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Engineering Center, Molecular Medicine Research Center, Fujian
Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to discover potential cancer-related
genes involved in retinoblastoma (RB) tumorigenesis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using a data-mining tool called cDNA Digital Gene
Expression Displayer (DGED) and serial analysis of gene expression DGED from the 
Cancer Genome Anatomy Project (CGAP) database, eight cDNA libraries and five
serial analysis of gene expression libraries from retinoblastoma (RB) solid
tumors and normal retina tissues were analyzed. The deregulated genes were
classified into major families using information from Gene Ontology. Several
candidate cancer-related genes were analyzed by real-time reverse transcription
polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunohistochemistry (IHC) on tissue
microarrays (TMA) of RB and human normal retina samples.
RESULTS: A total of 260 genes with deregulated expression emerged when examined
by DGED from the CGAP database. Functional classification of these genes not only
provided an interesting insight into RB tumorigenesis but also facilitated target
identification for RB therapeutics. Several candidate genes were confirmed by
real-time RT-PCR and IHC analysis on TMA and were found to be associated with RB 
genesis through text-mining in Information Hyperlinked over Proteins. The results
also implicated MCM7 and WIF1 as promising therapeutic targets for RB, but
further validation is needed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00381-008-0595-7 
PMID: 18350306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1464. Basic Res Cardiol. 2008 Jul;103(4):319-27. doi: 10.1007/s00395-008-0715-2. Epub
2008 Mar 17.

Reduced MMP-2 activity contributes to cardiac fibrosis in experimental diabetic
cardiomyopathy.

Van Linthout S(1), Seeland U, Riad A, Eckhardt O, Hohl M, Dhayat N, Richter U,
Fischer JW, Böhm M, Pauschinger M, Schultheiss HP, Tschöpe C.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Cardiology and Pneumology, Charité-University Medicine Berlin, Campus
Benjamin Franklin Hindenburgdamm 30, 12200, Berlin, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the regulation of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 in
diabetic cardiomyopathy.
METHODS: Left ventricle (LV) function was determined by a micro-tip catheter in
streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats, 2 or 6 weeks (w) after
STZ-application. LV total collagen, collagen type I and III content were
immunohistologically analyzed and quantified by digital image analysis. LV
collagen type I, III and MMP-2 mRNA expression was quantified by real-time
RT-PCR. LV pro- and active MMP-2 levels were analyzed by zymography; Smad 7,
membrane type (MT)1-MMP and tissue inhibitor metalloproteinase (TIMP)-2 protein
levels by Western Blot.
RESULTS: STZ-induced diabetes was associated with a time-dependent impairment of 
LV diastolic and systolic function. This was paralleled by a time-dependent
increase in LV total collagen content, despite reduced LV collagen type I and III
mRNA levels, indicating a role of post-transcriptional/post-translational changes
of extracellular matrix regulation. Six weeks (w) after STZ-injection, MMP-2 mRNA
expression and pro-MMP-2 levels were 2.7-fold (P < 0.005) and 1.3-fold (P < 0.05)
reduced versus controls, respectively, whereas active MMP-2 was decreased to
undetectable levels 6 w post-STZ. Concomitantly, Smad 7 and TIMP-2 protein levels
were 1.3-fold (P < 0.05) and 10-fold (P < 0.005) increased in diabetics versus
controls, respectively, whereas the 45 kDa form of MT1-MMP was undetectable in
diabetics.
CONCLUSION: Under STZ-diabetic conditions, cardiac fibrosis is associated with a 
dysregulation in extracellular matrix degradation. This condition is featured by 
reduced MMP-2 activity, concomitant with increased Smad 7 and TIMP-2 and
decreased MT1-MMP protein expression, which differs from mechanisms involved in
dilated and ischemic heart disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00395-008-0715-2 
PMID: 18347835  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1465. J Microbiol Methods. 2008 Apr;73(1):49-56. doi: 10.1016/j.mimet.2008.01.010. Epub
2008 Feb 5.

Application of PCR-SSCP for molecular epidemiological studies on the exposure of 
farm children to bacteria in environmental dust.

Korthals M(1), Ege MJ, Tebbe CC, von Mutius E, Bauer J.

Author information: 
(1)Lehrstuhl für Tierhygiene, Technische Universität München, Weihenstephaner
Berg 3, 85354 Freising, Germany. melanie.korthals@wzw.tum.de

The environmental exposure of farm children to microorganisms in dust has become 
a focus of interest, since microbial exposure on farms has been related to a
reduced prevalence of asthma and atopic diseases in children. Previous studies
almost exclusively focused on the determination of microbial counts using
conventional culturing or the determination of microbial compounds i.e.
endotoxins. In this study PCR-SSCP (single-strand conformation polymorphism) was 
modified for characterising bacterial communities in environmental dusts and
their sensitivity and reproducibility was validated. A fivefold repeated PCR-SSCP
analyses of a well homogenised mattress dust, cow-shed dust, swine-shed dust,
chicken-shed dust and a horse-shed dust sample, respectively, showed
similarities, based on Pearson correlations, ranging from 89.7% to 95.2%. The
reproducibility of day to day variations (five days) and gel to gel variations
(five gels) was also around 90%. The detection limit of Escherichia coli was 7 x 
10(1) cfu g(-1) whereas Listeria monocytogenes and Bacillus licheniformis
containing 30% spores showed visible bands at 7 x1 0(2) cfu g(-1). Application of
this method to dust samples of 37 sheds and 63 children's mattresses showed that 
distinct farm environment dusts reflected different SSCP profiles. However,
digital analysis of the gels showed that some bands in the profiles of shed- and 
mattress dusts were found at the same position in the gels. By excision, cloning,
sequencing and phylogenetic analyses, these bands were identified as
Corynebacterium tuberculostearicum, Corynebacterium mucifaciens, Staphylococcus
epidermidis, Acinetobacter lwoffii, Brevibacterium iodinum, Brevibacterium linens
and Arthrobacter spp, respectively. These results may reflect transfer of
microorganisms from animal sheds to mattresses. In conclusion this study
demonstrates that PCR-SSCP is a promising method with sensitive detection limits 
and moderate sample variances to be applied for epidemiological studies
characterizing the exposure of farmers using environmental dust.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mimet.2008.01.010 
PMID: 18321601  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1466. J Egypt Natl Canc Inst. 2008 Mar;20(1):10-6.

Prospective phase II study of brachytherapy boost as a component of neo-adjuvant 
chemotherapy and external beam radiation therapy in locally advanced rectal
cancer.

El-Sayed ME(1), El-Taher ZH.

Author information: 
(1)The Department of Radiation Oncology, King Abdul-Aziz University Hospital,
Faculty of Medicine, Jeddah Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. drmezzat@yahoo.com

PURPOSE: The aim of the current study is to assess the response rate and toxicity
profile in patients with locally advanced rectal cancer using brachytherapy (BT) 
boost following external beam radiotherapy (EBRT), concomitant with chemotherapy 
as a component of the neoadjuvant treatment.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This is a prospective phase II study of neoadjuvant
chemo-radiation therapy for patients with locally advanced rectal cancer who
presented to the department of radiation oncology, King Abdul-Aziz University
Hospital, Jeddah, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Seventeen patients had been included
in the study. Radiation therapy was given as: phase I, 45 Gy/25 fractions/5 weeks
of EBRT, followed by brachytherapy boost (within one week after the end of EBRT) 
using high dose rate iridium 192 (Ir192) aiming at 800 cGy given in 2 fractions
(each 400 cGy) separated by 1 week. All patients received the same concomitant
chemotherapy in the form of Capecitabine and Oxaliplatin. The clinical and
pathological response rates, together with the toxicity profile were assessed.
RESULTS: Seventeen patients had been studied; the majority (14; 82%) were males, 
while 3 only (18%) were females, their mean age was 57.4 years. All patients had 
low anterior resection (LAR). The clinical response rate, assessed by digital
rectal examination+/-endoscopy examination 4 weeks after the end of EBRT and BT, 
revealed that complete clinical response (cCR) was noted in 3 patients (18%),
clinical partial response (cPR) in 14 patients (82%); while the pathological
response rate was: complete pathological response (pCR) in 8 patients (47%),
pathological partial response (pPR) in 9 patients (53%). The toxicity profile
showed that grade III radiation proctitis was seen in one patient (6%), grade III
dermatitis in 2 (12%), while no patients developed grade III cystitis. For
chemotherapy toxicities, three patients (18%) developed grade III nausea and/or
vomiting, 2 (12%) developed grade III diarrhea.
CONCLUSION: The use of high dose rate brachytherapy as a boost in the neoadjuvant
chemotherapy and radiation therapy setting in locally advanced rectal cancer is
an acceptable modality with an appreciable clinical and pathological response
rates as well as an acceptable toxicity profile.


PMID: 19847277  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1467. DNA Seq. 2008 Feb;19(1):13-9. doi: 10.1080/10425170601101501.

Cloning, characterization and identification of Rcet1-v1 and Rcet1-v2, two novel 
splice variants of mouse Rcet1 related to Cres subgroup of family 2 cystatins.

Xiang Y(1), Nie DS, Zhang QJ, Zhu WB, Du J, Li W, Lu GX.

Author information: 
(1)College of Biotechnology, Southern Medical University, 1838 Guangzhou Dadao
Bei, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510515, China.

Cystatins are physiological cysteine proteinase inhibitors. We used digital
differential display (DDD) to clone two novel splice variants Rcet1-v1 and
Rcet1-v2 which were isolated from adult mouse testis cDNA library. Sequence
analysis revealed that Rcet1-v1 and Rcet1-v2 cDNAs are 454 and 610 bp in length, 
respectively, and each has four exons, but the lengths of their second and third 
exons are different, with the results that these cDNAs encoded two different
putative proteins. The deduced proteins were 88 amino acid residues (RCET1-v1)
and 140 residues (RCET1-v2) in length and have one potential signal peptide and
one cystatin domain, respectively, but lack part critical consensus sites
important for cysteine protease inhibition. These characteristics are seen in
CRES subgroup, which related to the family 2 cystatins and primarily expressed in
reproductive tract. RT-PCR analysis showed that Rcet1-v1 and Rcet1-v2 were
specifically expressed in adult mouse testis, epididymis and cerebrum, but higher
in testis than in epididymis and cerebrum. RT-PCR analysis also showed that
Rcet1-v1 and Rcet1-v2 were specifically expressed in adult mouse pituitary and
spermatogonium, but not expressed in spermatozoa. Results of in situ
hybridization showed that Rcet1 gene expressed abundantly in mouse
spermatogonium, spermatocytes and round spermatids; did not expressed in
spermatozoa. At mouse testis different development stages, Rcet1-v1 and Rcet1-v2 
were expressed very low from postnatal 1 day to postnatal 3 weeks; after
postnatal 4 weeks, expressed steadily increased from postnatal 4 to 7 weeks,
highest in postnatal 7 to 8 weeks, then keeping on the expressing level of
postnatal 6 weeks in postnatal 13-57 weeks. All these indicated that Rcet1-v1 and
Rcet1-v2 primarily expressed in mouse male reproductive tract and may play
important roles in mouse spermatocytes and round spermatid development. Rcet1-v1 
and Rcet1-v2 may be new members of Cres subgroup of the family 2 cystatins.

DOI: 10.1080/10425170601101501 
PMID: 18300157  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1468. Anal Chem. 2008 Mar 15;80(6):1854-8. doi: 10.1021/ac800048k. Epub 2008 Feb 16.

On-chip single-copy real-time reverse-transcription PCR in isolated picoliter
droplets.

Beer NR(1), Wheeler EK, Lee-Houghton L, Watkins N, Nasarabadi S, Hebert N, Leung 
P, Arnold DW, Bailey CG, Colston BW.

Author information: 
(1)Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, 7000 East Avenue, Livermore,
California 94551, USA. beer2@llnl.gov

The first lab-on-chip system for picoliter droplet generation and RNA isolation, 
followed by reverse transcription, and PCR amplification with real-time
fluorescence detection in the trapped droplets has been developed. The system
utilized a shearing T-junction in a fused-silica device to generate a stream of
monodisperse picoliter-scale droplets that were isolated from the microfluidic
channel walls and each other by the oil-phase carrier. An off-chip valving system
stopped the droplets on-chip, allowing thermal cycling for reverse transcription 
and subsequent PCR amplification without droplet motion. This combination of the 
established real-time reverse transcription-PCR assay with digital microfluidics 
is ideal for isolating single-copy RNA and virions from a complex environment and
will be useful in viral discovery and gene-profiling applications.

DOI: 10.1021/ac800048k 
PMID: 18278951  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1469. Nat Biotechnol. 2008 Mar;26(3):317-25. doi: 10.1038/nbt1385. Epub 2008 Feb 17.

Direct multiplexed measurement of gene expression with color-coded probe pairs.

Geiss GK(1), Bumgarner RE, Birditt B, Dahl T, Dowidar N, Dunaway DL, Fell HP,
Ferree S, George RD, Grogan T, James JJ, Maysuria M, Mitton JD, Oliveri P, Osborn
JL, Peng T, Ratcliffe AL, Webster PJ, Davidson EH, Hood L, Dimitrov K.

Author information: 
(1)NanoString Technologies Inc., 201 Elliott Ave West, Suite 300, Seattle,
Washington 98119, USA. ggeiss@nanostring.com

Comment in
    Nat Biotechnol. 2008 Mar;26(3):293-4.

We describe a technology, the NanoString nCounter gene expression system, which
captures and counts individual mRNA transcripts. Advantages over existing
platforms include direct measurement of mRNA expression levels without enzymatic 
reactions or bias, sensitivity coupled with high multiplex capability, and
digital readout. Experiments performed on 509 human genes yielded a replicate
correlation coefficient of 0.999, a detection limit between 0.1 fM and 0.5 fM,
and a linear dynamic range of over 500-fold. Comparison of the NanoString
nCounter gene expression system with microarrays and TaqMan PCR demonstrated that
the nCounter system is more sensitive than microarrays and similar in sensitivity
to real-time PCR. Finally, a comparison of transcript levels for 21 genes across 
seven samples measured by the nCounter system and SYBR Green real-time PCR
demonstrated similar patterns of gene expression at all transcript levels.

DOI: 10.1038/nbt1385 
PMID: 18278033  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1470. Curr Protoc Cell Biol. 2002 Nov;Chapter 19:Unit 19.4. doi:
10.1002/0471143030.cb1904s16.

SAGE analysis from 1 microg of total RNA.

Cai J(1), Ash D, Jabs EW.

Author information: 
(1)Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

Serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) is a powerful transcription-profiling
method that allows simultaneous expression analysis of thousands of transcripts, 
provides absolute digital readout of the expression level, and identifies new
genes. A disadvantage of SAGE is the relatively high amount of input RNA
required. Consequently, several techniques have been developed to overcome this
limitation, so that SAGE can be applied to very limited amounts of starting
material, e.g., small biological samples such as tissue biopsies or
microdissected materials. Here we describe a modified version of the original
microSAGE protocol, which requires only 1 to 2 microg total RNA. This method
avoids PCR amplification of cDNA and reamplification of ditags, procedures that
potentially compromise the quantitative nature of this technique.

DOI: 10.1002/0471143030.cb1904s16 
PMID: 18228401  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1471. Clin Chem. 2008 Mar;54(3):461-6. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2007.100016. Epub 2008 Jan
17.

Noninvasive prenatal diagnosis of fetal chromosomal aneuploidies by maternal
plasma nucleic acid analysis.

Lo YM(1), Chiu RW.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Research into Circulating Fetal Nucleic Acids, Li Ka Shing
Institute of Health Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Prince of
Wales Hospital, Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong SAR, China. loym@cuhk.edu.hk

BACKGROUND: The discovery of circulating cell-free fetal nucleic acids in
maternal plasma has opened up new possibilities for noninvasive prenatal
diagnosis. The potential application of this technology for the noninvasive
prenatal detection of fetal chromosomal aneuploidies is an aspect of this field
that is being actively investigated. The main challenge of work in this area is
the fact that cell-free fetal nucleic acids represent only a minor fraction of
the total nucleic acids in maternal plasma.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We performed a review of the literature, which revealed that
investigators have applied methods based on the physical and molecular enrichment
of fetal nucleic acid targets from maternal plasma. The former includes the use
of size fractionation of plasma DNA and the use of the controversial formaldehyde
treatment method. The latter has been achieved through the development of fetal
epigenetic and fetal RNA markers. The aneuploidy status of the fetus has been
explored through the use of allelic ratio analysis of plasma fetal epigenetic and
RNA markers. Digital PCR has been shown to offer high precision for allelic ratio
and relative chromosome dosage analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: After a decade of work, the theoretical and practical feasibility of
prenatal fetal chromosomal aneuploidy detection by plasma nucleic acid analysis
has been demonstrated in studies using small sample sets. Larger scale
independent studies will be needed to validate these initial observations. If
these larger scale studies prove successful, it is expected that with further
development of new fetal DNA/RNA markers and new analytical methods, molecular
noninvasive prenatal diagnosis of the major chromosomal aneuploidies could become
a routine practice in the near future.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2007.100016 
PMID: 18202154  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1472. Zhonghua Yan Ke Za Zhi. 2007 Oct;43(10):912-6.

[Expression of stromal cell-derived factor 1 is increased in the retina of
experimental diabetic rats].

[Article in Chinese]

Yuan YZ(1), Yuan F, Li L, Wang Y, Tong BY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai,
China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the expression of stromal cell-derived factor 1 (SDF-1)
in retina of experimental diabetic rats.
METHODS: Thirty four healthy male Wistar rats of six to eight weeks old were
chosen and divided randomly into 3 groups: normal control (CON, n = 8), diabetes 
mellitus 2 months (DM2M, n = 14) and 3 months (DM3M, n = 12). Diabetes was
induced by a single intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin (STZ) (60 mg/kg).
At the end point, immunochemistry and digital photomicrography analysis were
employed to localize and quantitate the expression of SDF-1 in the retinas. The
ratios of integrated optical density (IOD) to area of interest (AOI) were
calculated to evaluate the intensities of positive staining. Values of z and t,
as well as P value of each, were determined by Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney test and
Student's t-test, respectively. Immunofluorescent double-staining was used to
indicate the co-expression of SDF-1 and hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1), a
pivotal transcription factor activated by hypoxia. The SDF-1 mRNA of the retina
from DM2M (n = 4) and CON (n = 2) was detected by real-time RT-PCR. Copies of
SDF-1 mRNA were then adjusted by the copies of beta-actin mRNA in each sample.
Differences between groups were compared by a Student's t test.
RESULTS: Positive immunohistochemical staining for SDF-1 was found in each group,
most of which located in the inner part of the retina, especially at the inner
nuclear layer (INL) and ganglion cell layer (GCL). The inter-quartile range of
IOD/AOI of SDF-1 was between 0.6 x 10(-2) to 1.5 x 10(-2) in diabetic group, and 
1.1 x 10(-3) to 2.4 x 10(-3) in control group (z = -3.359, P < 0.001). There was 
no significant difference between DM2M and DM3M (t = 0.952, P > 0.05).
Co-expression of SDF-1 and HIF-1 was found in some cells in the inner part of the
retina of diabetic rats. Copies of SDF-1 mRNA in DM2M were 2.3 x 10(-4) +/- 1.2 x
10(-4), and those in CON were 2.9 x 10(-4) +/- 1.0 x 10(-4). The ratios of them
to beta-actin were 3.3 x 10(-2) +/- 8.5 x 10(-3) for DM2M and 1.7 x 10(-2) +/-
5.7 x 10(-3) for CON (t = 2.33, P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Possibly promoted by HIF-1, expression of SDF-1 is increased in the
retinas of diabetic rats, which may play an important role in the mechanism of
diabetic retinopathy.


PMID: 18201529  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1473. Mol Vis. 2007 Dec 30;13:2344-52.

Subconjunctival injection of recombinant AAV-angiostatin ameliorates alkali burn 
induced corneal angiogenesis.

Cheng HC(1), Yeh SI, Tsao YP, Kuo PC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Mackay Memorial Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
hccheng@so-net.net.tw

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effect of subconjunctival injection of recombinant
adeno-associated virus (rAAV)-angiostatin in alkali burn-induced corneal
angiogenesis.
METHODS: Adeno-associated viral vector-mediated gene delivery into extraocular
tissue was determined by fluorescent microscopy three weeks after subconjunctival
injection of viral vector expressing green fluorescent protein (rAAV-GFP).
Subconjunctival injection of recombinant adeno-associated viral vector expressing
human angiostatin (rAAV-angiostatin) and blank rAAV viral vector (control) was
performed in the left eye of male Sprague-Dawley rats (n=6). Alkaline induction
of corneal neovascularization (NV) was performed three weeks later. Corneal NV
regression was analyzed 7-14 days after alkali burn with slit lamp and digital
pictures. Transgenic expression of angiostatin in the cornea, conjunctiva,
retina, and muscle insertions was confirmed by reverse-transcriptase polymerase
chain reaction (RT-PCR).
RESULTS: Transgenic GFP gene expression was detected mainly in the muscle fibers 
at the extraocular muscle (EOM) insertions after subconjunctival injection. The
area of corneal neovascularization was significantly lower in eyes injected with 
rAAV-angiostatin (p<0.01) than in eyes injected with the control virus. RT-PCR
demonstrated that the angiostatin gene expression was highly detectable in muscle
fibers and not detectable in the conjunctiva, cornea, and retina.
CONCLUSIONS: Subconjunctival injection of rAAV-angiostatin reduced alkali
burn-induced corneal angiogenesis. We proved the concept that ocular gene therapy
by subconjunctival injection of adenovirus-associated gene transfer of
angiogenesis inhibitors can be a simple and safe treatment modality that can
achieve therapeutic levels and long lasting effects in the treatment of corneal
NV induced by ocular surface disorders.


PMID: 18199977  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1474. Zhongguo Zhong Xi Yi Jie He Za Zhi. 2007 Nov;27(11):1020-2.

[Experimental study on effect of Shumai capsule in promoting angiogenesis in rats
with myocardial ischemia].

[Article in Chinese]

Yin HQ(1), Zhang JD, Lin HQ.

Author information: 
(1)Qilu Hospital of Shandong University, Jinan.

OBJECTIVE: To study the effect of Shumai Capsule (SMC) on angiogenesis and
expression of relevant growth factor in rats with myocardial ischemia (MI).
METHODS: Model rats of MI were duplicated and treated with SMC (SMC group), bFGF 
+ calparine (positive control group) and normal saline (model group)
respectively. Besides, a sham-operative group was set up and treated with normal 
saline. The rats were sacrificed in batches at the time after being medicated for
1, 2 and 4 weeks, for determining von Willebrand factor (vWF) and vascular
endothelial growth factor (VEGF) protein expression in ischemic myocardium by
immuno-histochemical staining, myocardial micro-vessel density (MVD) using
digital analysis system, and the gene expression of VEGF by quantitative
real-time PCR.
RESULTS: Compared with the sham-operative group and the model group, levels of
MVD, protein and gene expression of VEGF in the SMC group were higher
respectively at three time segments (all P <0.01), but showed insignificant
difference to those in the positive control group.
CONCLUSION: SMC could promote angiogenesis in ischemic myocardium of rats, the
up-regulation on VEGF mRNA and protein expression might be one of the potential
mechanisms of SMC in promoting angiogenesis.


PMID: 18173152  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1475. Clin Cancer Res. 2008 Jan 1;14(1):74-81. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-07-1179.

Identification of matrix metalloproteinase 11 as a predictive tumor marker in
serum based on gene expression profiling.

Yang YH(1), Deng H, Li WM, Zhang QY, Hu XT, Xiao B, Zhu HH, Geng PL, Lu YY.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Oncology, Peking University School of Oncology,
Beijing Cancer Hospital and Institute, Beijing, PR China.

PURPOSE: Prognostic markers discovery is a strategy for early diagnosis and
individualization therapy for human cancer. In this study, we focus to integrate 
different methods to identify specific biomarker and elucidate its clinical
significance.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: A powerful tool named Digital Gene Expression Display online
was applied to isolate differentially expressed genes correlated with gastric
cancer. Matrix metalloproteinase 11 (MMP11) was selected and confirmed at both
mRNA and protein level in 10 cell lines, 123 cases of tumor tissues, and 305
cases of gastric cancer serum specimen by semiquantitative PCR,
immunohistochemistry staining, and ELISA techniques, respectively.
RESULTS: Our data showed that overexpression of MMP11 at mRNA and protein level
was consistently detected in cell lines and primary tumors compared with matched 
normal tissues. Importantly, serum MMP11 levels were also significantly elevated 
in gastric cancer patients compared with those of the control subjects (P <
0.001), and the positive expression was well correlated with metastasis in
gastric cancer patients (P = 0.009). Furthermore, we have shown that
overexpression of MMP11 was associated with the malignant proliferation of AGS
cells.
CONCLUSIONS: Combination of gene expression profiling and specific clinical
resource is a promising approach to validate gene expression patterns associated 
with malignant phenotype. As a secreted protein, MMP11 may play an important role
in carcinogenesis and has potential implication as a biomarker for the diagnosis 
and prognosis of human cancers including gastric cancer.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-07-1179 
PMID: 18172255  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1476. Mol Vis. 2007 Nov 29;13:2233-41.

X-linked idiopathic infantile nystagmus associated with a missense mutation in
FRMD7.

Shiels A(1), Bennett TM, Prince JB, Tychsen L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Washington University School 
of Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA. shiels@vision.wustl.edu

PURPOSE: Infantile nystagmus is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous eye
movement disorder. Here we map and identify the genetic mutation underlying
X-linked idiopathic infantile nystagmus (XL-IIN) segregating in two
Caucasian-American families.
METHODS: Eye movements were recorded using binocular infrared digital
video-oculography. Genomic DNA was prepared from blood or buccal-cells, and
linkage analysis was performed using short tandem repeat (STR) and single
nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers. Pedigree and haplotype data were managed
using Cyrillic, and LOD scores calculated using MLINK. Mutation profiling of
PCR-amplified exons was performed by dye-terminator cycle-sequencing and analyzed
by automated capillary electrophoresis.
RESULTS: Video-oculography of affected males recorded conjugate, horizontal,
pendular nystagmus with increasing-velocity waveforms in primary gaze converting 
to jerk nystagmus in eccentric gaze. Linkage analysis detected significantly
positive two-point LOD scores (Z) at markers DXS8078 (Z=4.82, recombination
fraction [theta]=0) and DXS1047 (Z=3.87, theta=0). Haplotyping indicated that the
IIN locus mapped to the physical interval DXS8057-(11.59 Mb)-rs6528335 on
Xq25-q26. Sequencing of positional-candidate genes detected a c.425T>G
transversion in exon-6 of the gene for FERM domain containing-7 (FRMD7) that
cosegregated with affected and carrier status. In addition, the same change was
found to cosegregate with IIN in a genetically unrelated family but was not
detected in 192 control individuals.
CONCLUSIONS: The c.425T>G change is predicted to result in the missense
substitution of the phylogenetically conserved leucine at codon 142 for an
arginine (p.L142R), and supports a causative role for FRMD7 mutations in the
pathogenesis of XL-IIN.


PMID: 18087240  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1477. Clin Chim Acta. 2008 Mar;389(1-2):40-4. Epub 2007 Nov 29.

Polymorphism in the human C-reactive protein (CRP) gene, serum concentrations of 
CRP, and the difference between intracranial and extracranial atherosclerosis.

Liu ZZ(1), Lv H, Gao F, Liu G, Zheng HG, Zhou YL, Wang YJ, Kang XX.

Author information: 
(1)The Center for Laboratory Diagnosis, Beijing Tian Tan Hospital, Capital
Medical University, Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND: C-reactive protein, a proinflammatory factor, is involved in the
development of atherosclerosis. The CRP 1059G>C polymorphism appeared to be a
susceptive marker for atherosclerosis. We investigated the relationship of the
distribution of cerebral atherosclerosis with triggered serum CRP concentrations 
following acute ischemic stroke/transient ischemic attack (IS/TIA) and CRP
1059G>C polymorphism.
METHODS: We recruited 222 IS/TIA patients (122 with only intracranial
atherosclerotic lesions and 100 with isolated extracranial atherosclerotic
lesions) and 227 controls. Intra- and extracranial atherosclerotic lesions were
determined by digital subtraction angiography. Serum CRP concentrations were
measured by particle-enhanced immunonephelometry assay. CRP 1059G>C genotypes
were obtained through PCR amplification and restriction enzyme digestion.
RESULTS: CRP concentrations were significantly higher in intra- and extracranial 
groups than in controls. No significant difference was found in CRP
concentrations between intra- and extracranial groups. The CRP 1059G>C
single-nucleotide polymorphism did not influence CRP serum concentrations. CRP
genotype and allele frequencies did not differ significantly between patients and
controls. However, the frequencies of GC genotype and C allele were significantly
higher in extracranial group than that in intracranial group. The GC individuals 
showed a higher risk of extracranial atherosclerosis compared with GG individuals
(OR 3.41; 95%CI, 1.124-10.347; P=0.030).
CONCLUSIONS: Serum CRP is associated with cerebral atherosclerotic disease. CRP
1059G>C polymorphism is one possible genetic determinant for the difference
between intra- and extracranial atherosclerosis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cca.2007.11.018 
PMID: 18083122  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1478. Z Orthop Unfall. 2007 Nov-Dec;145(6):772-7.

[Faster diagnostics by digital X-ray imaging in the emergency room: a prospective
study in multiple trauma patients].

[Article in German]

Burger C(1), Zwingmann J, Kabir K, Tolba RH, Goost H, Wilhelm KE.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Orthopädie und Unfallchirurgie, Universitätsklinikum
Bonn.

AIM: The object of this study was to provide evidence for a time-reduced
diagnostic space in multiple trauma patients by use of a digital X-ray system in 
the emergency suite.
METHOD: The same algorithm was used in the first attention of 66 severely injured
patients. For 21 patients from October 2000 to March 2001 (group 1) conventional 
X-rays (thorax, pelvis, spine and extremities) were performed in the analogue
way, for 45 patients from April to December 2001 (group 2) the new digital system
(Philips Optimum and Philips PCR AC 500) was used.
RESULTS: The two groups were similar concerning age, sex and injury severity. The
time-space from the patient's delivery in the emergency suite to the handing over
in the operation theatre or intensive care unit was significantly lower in group 
2 (87 +/- 33 min, p < 0.001) than in group 1 (121 +/- 49 min).
CONCLUSION: Digital imaging with conventional X-rays in the first attention of
multiple trauma patients reduces the diagnostic time by more than half an hour,
when applying the same diagnostic algorithm.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-989302 
PMID: 18072045  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1479. Mol Cancer. 2007 Nov 24;6:76.

Epidermal growth factor potentiates in vitro metastatic behaviour of human
prostate cancer PC-3M cells: involvement of voltage-gated sodium channel.

Uysal-Onganer P(1), Djamgoz MB.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Solutions to Cancer Research Group, Division of Cell and
Molecular Biology, Sir Alexander Fleming Building, Imperial College London, South
Kensington Campus, London SW7 2AZ, UK. p.onganer@imperial.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Although a high level of functional voltage-gated sodium channel
(VGSC) expression has been found in strongly metastatic human and rat prostate
cancer (PCa) cells, the mechanism(s) responsible for the upregulation is unknown.
The concentration of epidermal growth factor (EGF), a modulator of ion channels, 
in the body is highest in prostatic fluid. Thus, EGF could be involved in the
VGSC upregulation in PCa. The effects of EGF on VGSC expression in the highly
metastatic human PCa PC-3M cell line, which was shown previously to express both 
functional VGSCs and EGF receptors, were investigated. A quantitative approach,
from gene level to cell behaviour, was used. mRNA levels were determined by
real-time PCR. Protein expression was studied by Western blots and
immunocytochemistry and digital image analysis. Functional assays involved
measurements of transverse migration, endocytic membrane activity and Matrigel
invasion.
RESULTS: Exogenous EGF enhanced the cells' in vitro metastatic behaviours
(migration, endocytosis and invasion). Endogenous EGF had a similar involvement. 
EGF increased VGSC Nav1.7 (predominant isoform in PCa) mRNA and protein
expressions. Co-application of the highly specific VGSC blocker tetrodotoxin
(TTX) suppressed the effect of EGF on all three metastatic cell behaviours
studied.
CONCLUSION: 1) EGF has a major involvement in the upregulation of functional VGSC
expression in human PCa PC-3M cells. (2) VGSC activity has a significant
intermediary role in potentiating effect of EGF in human PCa.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-4598-6-76 
PMCID: PMC2211503
PMID: 18036246  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1480. Vet Microbiol. 2008 Apr 1;128(1-2):118-25. Epub 2007 Oct 7.

Involvement of Guggenheimella bovis in digital dermatitis lesions of dairy cows.

Schlafer S(1), Nordhoff M, Wyss C, Strub S, Hübner J, Gescher DM, Petrich A,
Göbel UB, Moter A.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Mikrobiologie und Hygiene, Charité - Universitätsmedizin,
Dorotheenstrasse 96, Berlin, Germany.

Digital dermatitis (DD) of cattle leads to lameness and a decrease of milk
production and is responsible for major economic losses worldwide. Although a
bacterial aetiology is generally accepted, it still is unclear which
microorganisms cause and/or maintain the disease. Recently, a previously
undiscovered bacterial species, Guggenheimella bovis, has been isolated from the 
front of two DD lesions in Swiss cattle and suggested as a potential pathogen.
The aims of the present study were to determine the prevalence of G. bovis in 58 
German cows suffering from DD via dot blot hybridization, and to analyse the
spatial distribution of G. bovis within the affected tissue by fluorescence in
situ hybridization (FISH). A species-specific probe, GUBO1, was designed and
evaluated. In none of the 58 samples Guggenheimella could be detected, while
cultured G. bovis was reliably identified by GUBO1. Further FISH experiments were
carried out on two additional biopsies of Swiss cattle tested positive for G.
bovis by quantitative PCR and permitted visualization of the newly discovered
bacteria in situ. In these biopsies G. bovis proved to be tissue invasive forming
characteristic spherical microcolonies not only within the bacterial biofilm but 
also in seemingly unaffected parts of the tissue not yet reached by the advancing
bacterial front. Although the presence of G. bovis does not constitute an
essential premise for DD, it seems likely that the bacterial species involved in 
DD vary, and that in some cases G. bovis is crucial for the development of DD
lesions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2007.09.024 
PMID: 18024006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1481. Exp Eye Res. 2007 Dec;85(6):825-35. Epub 2007 Aug 29.

Arsenic trioxide initiates ER stress responses, perturbs calcium signalling and
promotes apoptosis in human lens epithelial cells.

Zhang H(1), Duncan G, Wang L, Liu P, Cui H, Reddan JR, Yang BF, Wormstone IM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The First Affiliated Hospital, Harbin Medical
University, Harbin, Heilongjiang Province, China. hongzhang@ems.hrbmu.edu.cn

Identification of novel agents to eradicate the residual lens cell population
following cataract surgery provides one mode of preventing PCO formation. The
present study investigated the biological mechanism of As(2)O(3) cytotoxicity in 
a human lens cell line and capsular bag system. FHL 124 cell survival was
assessed by quantification of total protein content, a cell population measure.
Gene changes were detected by Real-time PCR; apoptosis by TUNEL assays.
Intracellular calcium was measured by real-time fluorimetric single-cell digital 
imaging techniques after Fura-2 incorporation. In vitro human capsular bags were 
generated from donor eyes, which involved sham cataract surgery then use of the
Perfect Capsule device to form a closed system to deliver As(2)O(3) for 2min.
On-going observations were by phase-contrast microscopy. Cellular architecture
was examined by fluorescence immunocytochemistry. FHL 124 cells demonstrated a
dose-dependent sensitivity to As(2)O(3) exposure. A 2min exposure of As(2)O(3) to
cells within the capsular bag, using the perfect capsule system, resulted in
total cell death when used at 100mM. As(2)O(3) provoked an ER stress response
identified through an upregulation of known genes. As(2)O(3) depleted the calcium
store and consequently lead to reduced calcium signalling. As(2)O(3) increased
rates of apoptosis. Arsenic trioxide provokes ER stress that leads to
down-regulation of calcium signalling resulting in apoptosis. The application of 
As(2)O(3) to cells within the capsular bag for a 2min window using the Perfect
Capsule system predicts putative therapeutic benefit in vivo.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2007.08.018 
PMID: 17963750  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1482. Methods Mol Biol. 2007;402:371-84.

Designing PCR primer for DNA methylation mapping.

Li LC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Veterans Affairs Medical Center and University of
California, San Francisco, USA.

DNA methylation is an epigenetic mechanism of gene regulation, and aberrant
methylation has been associated with various types of diseases, especially
cancers. Detection of DNA methylation has thus become an important approach for
studying gene regulation and has potential diagnostic application.
Bisulfite-conversion-based PCR methods, such as bisulfite-sequencing PCR (BSP)
and methylation-specific PCR (MSP), remain the most commonly used techniques for 
methylation detection. Primer design for this type of PCR is challenging because 
of the extreme DNA sequence composition after bisulfite modification and the
special constraints on the primers and their location on the DNA template. To
facilitate methylation detection, a primer design program called MethPrimer has
been developed specifically for bisulfite-conversion-based PCR. MethPrimer
accepts a DNA sequence as input, performs a digital bisulfite conversion of the
input sequence, and then picks primers on the converted sequence. Results of
primer selection are delivered through a Web browser in text and graphic views.
This chapter discusses the process of using MethPrimer to design BSP and MSP
primers.


PMID: 17951806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1483. Methods Mol Biol. 2007;402:159-76.

Genome-scale probe and primer design with PRIMEGENS.

Srivastava GP(1), Xu D.

Author information: 
(1)Digital BiologyLaboratory, Computer Science Department University of
Missouri-Columbia, USA.

This chapter introduces the software package PRIMEGENS for designing
gene-specific probes and associated PCR primers on a large scale. Such design is 
especially useful for constructing cDNA or oligo microarray to minimize
cross-hybridization. PRIMEGENS can also be used for designing primers to amplify 
a segment of a unique target gene using reverse-transcriptase (RT)-PCR. The input
to PRIMEGENS is a set of sequences, whose primers need to be designed, and a
sequence pool containing all the genes in a genome. It provides options to choose
various parameters. PRIMEGENS uses a systematic algorithm for designing
gene-specific probes and its primer pair. For a given sequence, PRIMEGENS first
searches for the longest gene-specific fragment and then designs best PCR product
for this fragment. The 2.0 version of PRIMEGENS provides a graphical user
interface (GUI) with additional features. The software is freely available for
any users and can be downloaded from http://digbio.missouri.edu/primegens/.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-59745-528-2_8 
PMID: 17951795  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1484. Gynecol Obstet Invest. 2007;64(3):138-43.

Uterine receptivity and cytokines: new concepts and new applications.

Lédée N(1), Dubanchet S, Oger P, Meynant C, Lombroso R, Ville Y, Chaouat G.

Author information: 
(1)Université Versailles St Quentin en Yvelines, Médecine de la Reproduction, CHI
Poissy-St Germain en Laye, Poissy, France. Ledeenathalie@aol.com

The implantation process, currently thought to be the most critical step in
achieving a successful early pregnancy, remains one of the most important
unsolved processes in reproductive medicine. It depends on uterine-dependent and 
embryo-specific events, which need to be critically coordinated. Early embryo
signaling following a maternal hormonal or cytokine-mediated preparation phase
seems to be involved in stages immediately before, during and just after the
apposition step to permit adequate proliferation of the stroma. Our objective is 
to develop guidelines and diagnostic tools pertinent to appreciate uterine
receptivity. We will focus our attention on the uterine luminal environment at
the time of oocyte retrieval and on the monitoring of the endometrium using
three-dimensional ultrasound associated with digital technology and cytokine
quantification by real-time PCR during the implantation window in an IVF/ICSI
population. There is an accumulating body of data which strongly suggests that
both implantation and uterine receptivity are controlled, primarily, though not
exclusively, by locally acting growth factors and cytokines, some under steroid
control. Some specific cytokines (IL-12, IL-15 and IL-18) in the luminal
environment and in the endometrium allow a distinct pattern of abnormal uterine
receptivity. The identification of these distinct patterns of abnormal uterine
receptivity and of the mechanisms leading to the abnormal angiogenesis before
implantation strongly suggest that no single therapeutic scheme can correct all
cases of implantation failure and should be adapted for each patient especially
in the case of unexplained infertility.

(c) 2007 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000101737 
PMID: 17934309  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1485. Anal Chem. 2007 Nov 15;79(22):8471-5. Epub 2007 Oct 11.

On-chip, real-time, single-copy polymerase chain reaction in picoliter droplets.

Beer NR(1), Hindson BJ, Wheeler EK, Hall SB, Rose KA, Kennedy IM, Colston BW.

Author information: 
(1)Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, 7000 East Avenue, Livermore,
California 94551, USA.

The first lab-on-chip system for picoliter droplet generation and PCR
amplification with real-time fluorescence detection has performed PCR in isolated
droplets at volumes 106 smaller than commercial real-time PCR instruments. The
system utilized a shearing T-junction in a silicon device to generate a stream of
monodisperse picoliter droplets that were isolated from the microfluidic channel 
walls and each other by the oil-phase carrier. An off-chip valving system stopped
the droplets on-chip, allowing them to be thermally cycled through the PCR
protocol without droplet motion. With this system, a 10-pL droplet, encapsulating
less than one copy of viral genomic DNA through Poisson statistics, showed
real-time PCR amplification curves with a cycle threshold of approximately 18, 20
cycles earlier than commercial instruments. This combination of the established
real-time PCR assay with digital microfluidics is ideal for isolating single-copy
nucleic acids in a complex environment.

DOI: 10.1021/ac701809w 
PMID: 17929880  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1486. J Pathol. 2007 Nov;213(3):249-56.

Analysis of copy number changes suggests chromosomal instability in a minority of
large colorectal adenomas.

Jones AM(1), Thirlwell C, Howarth KM, Graham T, Chambers W, Segditsas S, Page KM,
Phillips RK, Thomas HJ, Sieber OM, Sawyer EJ, Tomlinson IP.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Population Genetics Laboratory, London Research Institute,
Cancer Research UK, 44 Lincoln's Inn Fields, London WC2A 3PX, UK.

We have examined chromosomal-scale mutations in 34 large colorectal adenomas
(CRAs). A small number of changes (median = 2, IQR = 0-4) were found by
array-comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) in most tumours. The most common
changes were deletions of chromosomes 1p, 9q, 17, 19, and 22, and gains of
chromosomes 13 and 21. SNP-LOH analysis and pseudo-digital SNP-PCR analysis
detected occasional copy-neutral LOH. Some aCGH changes found frequently in
colorectal carcinomas, such as deletions of chromosomes 4q and 18q, were very
infrequent in the adenomas. Almost all copy number changes were of small
magnitude, far below the predicted levels even for single copy gain/loss;
investigation suggested that these changes were either artefactual or occurred in
sub-clones within the tumours. In some cases, these sub-clones may have
represented progression towards carcinoma, but comparison with aCGH data from
carcinomas showed this to be unlikely in most cases. In two adenomas, there was
evidence of a large, outlying number of copy number changes, mostly resulting
from part-chromosome deletions. Overall, moreover, there was evidence of a
tendency towards part-chromosome deletions-consistent with chromosomal
instability (CIN)--in about one-sixth of all tumours. However, there was no
evidence of CIN in the form of whole-chromosome copy number changes. Our data did
not support previous contentions that CRAs tend to show chromosome breakage at
fragile sites owing to CIN associated with an elevated DNA damage response.
Chromosomal-scale mutations occur in some CRAs; although CIN is not the norm in
these lesions, it probably affects a minority of cases.

Copyright 2007 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by
John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/path.2234 
PMID: 17893889  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1487. Cancer Res. 2007 Sep 15;67(18):8511-8.

Ultradeep bisulfite sequencing analysis of DNA methylation patterns in multiple
gene promoters by 454 sequencing.

Taylor KH(1), Kramer RS, Davis JW, Guo J, Duff DJ, Xu D, Caldwell CW, Shi H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Anatomical Sciences, Ellis Fischel Cancer Center, 
University of Missouri-Columbia, Columbia, Missouri, USA.

We developed a novel approach for conducting multisample, multigene, ultradeep
bisulfite sequencing analysis of DNA methylation patterns in clinical samples. A 
massively parallel sequencing-by-synthesis method (454 sequencing) was used to
directly sequence >100 bisulfite PCR products in a single sequencing run without 
subcloning. We showed the utility, robustness, and superiority of this approach
by analyzing methylation in 25 gene-related CpG rich regions from >40 cases of
primary cells, including normal peripheral blood lymphocytes, acute lymphoblastic
leukemia (ALL), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), follicular lymphoma (FL), and
mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). A total of 294,631 sequences was generated with an
average read length of 131 bp. On average, >1,600 individual sequences were
generated for each PCR amplicon far beyond the few clones (<20) typically
analyzed by traditional bisulfite sequencing. Comprehensive analysis of CpG
methylation patterns at a single DNA molecule level using clustering algorithms
revealed differential methylation patterns between diseases. A significant
increase in methylation was detected in ALL and FL samples compared with CLL and 
MCL. Furthermore, a progressive spreading of methylation was detected from the
periphery toward the center of select CpG islands in the ALL and FL samples. The 
ultradeep sequencing also allowed simultaneous analysis of genetic and epigenetic
data and revealed an association between a single nucleotide polymorphism and the
methylation present in the LRP1B promoter. This new generation of methylome
sequencing will provide digital profiles of aberrant DNA methylation for
individual human cancers and offers a robust method for the epigenetic
classification of tumor subtypes.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-07-1016 
PMID: 17875690  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1488. DNA Seq. 2008 Jun;19(3):206-16.

Genome-wide analysis of SINA family in plants and their phylogenetic
relationships.

Wang M(1), Jin Y, Fu J, Zhu Y, Zheng J, Hu J, Wang G.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Agrobiotecnology, China Agricultural University,
Beijing, PR China. wangmeng@cau.edu.cn

SINA genes in plants are part of a multigene family with 5 members in Arabidopsis
thaliana, 10 members in Populus trichocarpa, 6 members in Oryza sativa, at least 
6 members in Zea mays and at least 1 member in Physcomitrella patens. Six members
in maize were confirmed by RT-PCR. All SINAs have one RING domain and one SINA
domain. These two domains are highly conserved in plants. According to the motif 
organization and phylogenetic tree, SINA family members were divided into 2
groups. In addition, through semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis of maize members
and Digital Northern analysis of Arabidopsis and rice members, we found that the 
tissue expression patterns are more diverse in monocot than in Arabidopsis.

DOI: 10.1080/10425170701517317 
PMID: 17852340  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1489. Clin Cancer Res. 2007 Sep 1;13(17):5103-8.

Detection of TMPRSS2-ERG fusion transcripts and prostate cancer antigen 3 in
urinary sediments may improve diagnosis of prostate cancer.

Hessels D(1), Smit FP, Verhaegh GW, Witjes JA, Cornel EB, Schalken JA.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Urology, Nijmegen Center for Molecular Life Sciences, Radboud
University Nijmegen Medical Center, Nijmegen, the Netherlands.

PURPOSE: Early detection of prostate cancer can increase the curative success
rate for prostate cancer. We studied the diagnostic usefulness of TMPRSS2-ERG
fusion transcripts as well as the combination of prostate cancer antigen 3 (PCA3)
RNA and TMPRSS2-ERG fusion transcripts in urinary sediments after digital rectal 
examination (DRE).
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: A total of 78 men with prostate cancer-positive biopsies and
30 men with prostate cancer-negative biopsies were included in this study. After 
DRE, the first voided urine was collected, and urinary sediments were obtained.
We used semiquantitative reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) analysis followed by 
Southern blot hybridization with a radiolabeled probe for the detection
TMPRSS2-ERG fusion transcripts in these urinary sediments. A quantitative RT-PCR 
assay for PCA3 was used to determine the PCA3 score in the same sediments.
RESULTS: TMPRSS2-ERG fusion transcripts can be detected in the urine after DRE
with a sensitivity of 37%. In this cohort of patients, the PCA3-based assay had a
sensitivity of 62%. When both markers were combined, the sensitivity increased to
73%. Especially in the cohort of men with persistently elevated serum
prostate-specific antigen levels and history of negative biopsies, the high
positive predictive value of 94% of TMPRSS2-ERG fusion transcripts could give a
better indication which patients require repeat biopsies.
CONCLUSION: In this report, we used for the first time the combination of the
prostate cancer-specific biomarkers TMPRSS2-ERG and PCA3, which significantly
improves the sensitivity for prostate cancer diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-07-0700 
PMID: 17785564  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1490. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2007 Aug 7;104(32):13116-21. Epub 2007 Jul 30.

Digital PCR for the molecular detection of fetal chromosomal aneuploidy.

Lo YM(1), Lun FM, Chan KC, Tsui NB, Chong KC, Lau TK, Leung TY, Zee BC, Cantor
CR, Chiu RW.

Author information: 
(1)Li Ka Shing Institute of Health Sciences, Department of Chemical Pathology,
School of Public Health, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Sha Tin, New
Territories, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, People's Republic of China.
loym@cuhk.edu.hk

Trisomy 21 is the most common reason that women opt for prenatal diagnosis.
Conventional prenatal diagnostic methods involve the sampling of fetal materials 
by invasive procedures such as amniocentesis. Screening by ultrasonography and
biochemical markers have been used to risk-stratify pregnant women before
definitive invasive diagnostic procedures. However, these screening methods
generally target epiphenomena, such as nuchal translucency, associated with
trisomy 21. It would be ideal if noninvasive genetic methods were available for
the direct detection of the core pathology of trisomy 21. Here we outline an
approach using digital PCR for the noninvasive detection of fetal trisomy 21 by
analysis of fetal nucleic acids in maternal plasma. First, we demonstrate the use
of digital PCR to determine the allelic imbalance of a SNP on PLAC4 mRNA, a
placenta-expressed transcript on chromosome 21, in the maternal plasma of women
bearing trisomy 21 fetuses. We named this the digital RNA SNP strategy. Second,
we developed a nonpolymorphism-based method for the noninvasive prenatal
detection of trisomy 21. We named this the digital relative chromosome dosage
(RCD) method. Digital RCD involves the direct assessment of whether the total
copy number of chromosome 21 in a sample containing fetal DNA is overrepresented 
with respect to a reference chromosome. Even without elaborate instrumentation,
digital RCD allows the detection of trisomy 21 in samples containing 25% fetal
DNA. We applied the sequential probability ratio test to interpret the digital
PCR data. Computer simulation and empirical validation confirmed the high
accuracy of the disease classification algorithm.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0705765104 
PMCID: PMC1934923
PMID: 17664418  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1491. Ann Rheum Dis. 2008 Mar;67(3):402-8. Epub 2007 Jul 20.

Assessment of rituximab's immunomodulatory synovial effects (ARISE trial). 1:
clinical and synovial biomarker results.

Kavanaugh A(1), Rosengren S, Lee SJ, Hammaker D, Firestein GS, Kalunian K, Wei N,
Boyle DL.

Author information: 
(1)University of California, San Diego, Division of Rheumatology, Allergy, and
Immunology, 9500 Gilman Drive, Mail Code 0943, La Jolla, CA 92093-0943, USA.
akavanaugh@ucsd.edu

OBJECTIVE: Treatment with the anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody (mAb) rituximab is
effective in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Marked depletion of circulating B cells, 
seen in almost all patients, does not correlate with efficacy. The potential
synovial immunomodulatory effects of rituximab have not been fully defined.
METHODS: The ARISE trial is an open label, serial synovial biopsy (pre-treatment 
and 8 weeks) study of rituximab, given 1 g intravenously on days 0 and 14 without
peri-infusional steroids, in active RA patients on concomitant methotrexate
(MTX). Synovial tissue was analysed by immunohistochemistry with digital image
analysis and gene expression by real-time PCR.
RESULTS: The mean (SD) baseline DAS28 score was 6.5 (0.4), and mean MTX dose 17.3
mg/week. Of 13 patients, 11 had failed prior tumour necrosis factor (TNF)
inhibitor therapy. With treatment, all patients experienced near complete
depletion of circulating B cell numbers. During the 6 months after treatment,
7/13 patients achieved an American College of Rheumatology (ACR) 20% improvement 
(ACR20) response, 3/13 an ACR50 response and 2/13 an ACR70 response. There was a 
significant decrease in synovial B cells after treatment, but only a small trend 
towards greater reduction among clinical responders. Among the three patients
with ACR50 responses there was a significant decrease in synovial immunoglobulin 
synthesis.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that unlike those in circulation, synovial B
cells are decreased but are not eliminated by rituximab therapy. Patients with
higher levels of response may have more consistent depletion of synovial B cells,
and may also have an alteration in synovial B cell function, as indicated by
decreases in synovial immunoglobulin synthesis. Thus, effects on synovial B cells
may be necessary but not sufficient for inducing clinical efficacy. Other
effects, such as on primary lymph organ B cell antigen presentation or cytokine
production, may be operative.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.2007.074229 
PMCID: PMC2754142
PMID: 17644541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1492. Vet Microbiol. 2007 Dec 15;125(3-4):256-64. Epub 2007 Jun 13.

Papillomatous digital dermatitis spirochetes suppress the bovine macrophage
innate immune response.

Zuerner RL(1), Heidari M, Elliott MK, Alt DP, Neill JD.

Author information: 
(1)Bacterial Diseases of Livestock Research Unit, National Animal Disease Center,
USDA, ARS, Ames, IA 50010, USA.

Papillomatous digital dermatitis (PDD) is a polymicrobial infection in soft
tissue adjacent to the hoof and is the leading cause of lameness in dairy cattle.
Treponema phagedenis-like (TPL) spirochetes are a constant feature of PDD lesions
and are localized deep in infected tissue. Host-cell response mechanisms to TPL
spirochetes are poorly understood. To assess how bovine macrophages respond to
cellular constituents of TPL spirochetes, changes in transcription were analyzed 
using serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) and real time RT-PCR. This
analysis revealed that some proinflammatory cytokines (e.g. GCP-2 and IL-8) are
induced in treated macrophages, while receptors and their accessory proteins for 
IL-1, IL-6 and IL-11 are either down regulated or unchanged. Two genes encoding
proteins having negative effects on NFkappaB, IkappaB and SIVA-1, are
significantly induced in stimulated cells. Several genes associated with the
cytoskeleton and antigen presentation are down regulated after exposure to
sonicated TPL spirochetes, as are genes associated with wound repair. Combined,
these data suggest that the innate immune and wound repair functions of bovine
macrophages exposed to TPL cellular constituents are impaired thereby enabling
bacteria to resist clearance and induce lesion formation. Use of this in vitro
bovine macrophage model should be useful in elucidating host-spirochete
interactions and facilitate identification of potential virulence traits.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2007.06.001 
PMID: 17628359  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1493. Vet Immunol Immunopathol. 2007 Jul 15;118(1-2):30-9. Epub 2007 May 3.

Immune parameters in mares resistant and susceptible to persistent post-breeding 
endometritis: effects of immunomodulation.

Fumuso EA(1), Aguilar J, Giguère S, Rivulgo M, Wade J, Rogan D.

Author information: 
(1)UNICEN, Facultad de Ciencias Veterinarias, Pinto 399, Tandil 7000, Argentina. 
efumuso@vet.unicen.edu.ar

Our objective was to characterize immune parameters in susceptible (SM) and
resistant (RM) mares, with and without artificial insemination (AI) and
immunomodulation. Eight RM and eight SM were selected based on their reproductive
history and functional tests. Both groups of mares were evaluated during three
consecutive cycles: Cycle 1, untreated cycle (control); Cycle 2, AI with dead
semen; Cycle 3, AI with dead semen and immunomodulation. Endometrial biopsies
were taken during the three cycles as follows: Cycle 1--at estrus, when follicles
> or =35mm and at diestrus (7+/-1 days after ovulation); Cycle 2--at estrus 24h
post-AI, and at diestrus; Cycle 3--at estrus 24h after treatment with a
Mycobacterium phlei cell-wall extract (MCWE) and AI, and at diestrus. The mRNA
transcription (mRNAT) of IL-8 and IL-10 were determined by real-time PCR. Image
analysis of immunohistochemistry slides was performed using digital software
(Image-Pro Plus v 5.0; Media Cybernetics); the percentage of stained area was
determined for Major Histocompatibility Complex II (MHC-II), polymorphonuclear
leukocytes (PMN) and T lymphocytes (TL) on each tissue section. In Cycle 1, SM
had significantly higher MHC-II, TL, PMN and IL-8 than RM during estrus (P<0.006,
P<0.0005, P<0.05, respectively), while transcription of IL-10 was significantly
lower than in RM (P<0.0001). During diestrus, SM had higher levels of TL, PMN and
IL-8 than RM (P<0.0001). After AI (Cycle 2), SM had higher levels of IL-8 and
lower levels of IL-10 than RM at estrus and no differences were detected for
MHC-II, TL and PMN positive cells. During diestrus in the same cycle, all the
immune parameters were higher in SM mares (P<0.005, P<0.0004, P<0.0001, P<0.02,
respectively). When MCWE was applied at the time of AI (Cycle 3), SM expressed
significant higher levels of IL-10 24h after treatment (P<0.005), which were also
higher than in the control Cycle 2 or after AI (Cycle 2). However, no significant
differences were detected for MHC-II, lymphocytes-PMN or IL-8 between SM and RM
during diestrus in Cycle 3. This study showed that SM had higher levels of all
immune parameters except IL-10 than RM during Cycle 1. After AI (Cycle 2), the
inflammatory condition persisted in SM but not RM mares until day 7
post-ovulation. Following treatment with MCWE at the time of AI (Cycle 3) uterine
immunological changes in SM resulted in an endometrial immune environment similar
to that found in normal RM.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetimm.2007.04.009 
PMID: 17559943  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1494. Proteomics. 2007 Jun;7(13):2142-50.

A high-throughput strategy for protein profiling in cell microarrays using
automated image analysis.

Strömberg S(1), Björklund MG, Asplund C, Sköllermo A, Persson A, Wester K, Kampf 
C, Nilsson P, Andersson AC, Uhlen M, Kononen J, Ponten F, Asplund A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics and Pathology, Rudbeck Laboratory, Uppsala University, 
Uppsala, Sweden.

Advances in antibody production render a growing supply of affinity reagents for 
immunohistochemistry (IHC), and tissue microarray (TMA) technologies facilitate
simultaneous analysis of protein expression in a multitude of tissues. However,
collecting validated IHC data remains a bottleneck problem, as the standard
method is manual microscopical analysis. Here we present a high-throughput
strategy combining IHC on a recently developed cell microarray with a novel,
automated image-analysis application (TMAx). The software was evaluated on 200
digital images of IHC-stained cell spots, by comparing TMAx annotation with
manual annotation performed by seven human experts. A high concordance between
automated and manual annotation of staining intensity and fraction of
IHC-positive cells was found. In a limited study, we also investigated the
possibility to assess the correlation between mRNA and protein levels, by using
TMAx output results for relative protein quantification and quantitative
real-time PCR for the quantification of corresponding transcript levels. In
conclusion, automated analysis of immunohistochemically stained in vitro-cultured
cells in a microarray format can be used for high-throughput protein profiling,
and extraction of RNA from the same cell lines provides a basis for comparing
transcription and protein expression on a global scale.

DOI: 10.1002/pmic.200700199 
PMID: 17549799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1495. Pneumonol Alergol Pol. 2007;75(1):22-31.

[The significance of spoligotyping method in epidemiological investigations of
tuberculosis].

[Article in Polish]

Augustynowicz-Kopeć E(1), Jagielski T, Kozińska M, Zabost A, Zwolska Z.

Author information: 
(1)Zakład Mikrobiologii Instytutu Gruźlicy i Chorób Płuc w Warszawie.
e.kopec@igichp.edu.pl

INTRODUCTION: The control of tuberculosis (TB) requires methods for rapid
detection and tracing sources of infection, so that further transmission can be
arrested. Recent developments in molecular biology have resulted in techniques
that allow prompt identification and tracking specific strains of M. tuberculosis
as they spread through the population. Most of these techniques take advantage of
M. tuberculosis DNA polymorphism and are based on various repetitive DNA elements
as genetic markers. Each method yields strain-specific genetic profiles
(fingerprints). Strains showing identical fingerprints are referred to as
clustered and are usually associated with recent transmission, whereas strains
whose fingerprints are unique are presumed to represent remote transmission, a
reactivation of infection acquired in the distant past.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: In recent years, spoligotyping has become one of the most
widely used genotyping method for epidemiological studies of TB. Spoligotyping is
a PCR-based method allowing to analyze strain-dependent polymorphisms observed in
spacer sequences present within the direct repeat (DR) genomic region of M.
tuberculosis complex strains. Spoligotyping provides some important advantages
over other genotyping techniques. These are simplicity, rapidity, high
reproducibility and stability of the results, with the latter being expressed in 
a simple digital pattern, readily named and databased, and the ability to perform
spoligotyping directly on clinical samples, without the need for prior culture.
However, spoligotyping has relatively low discriminatory capacity, which makes it
necessary to use secondary fingerprinting methods to prove clonality between
isolates.
RESULTS: The aim of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of spoligotyping in
epidemiological investigations of TB by analyzing 16 isoniazid-resistant M.
tuberculosis strains isolated from patients with pulmonary TB in the central
region of Poland. A total of 11 distinct spoligopatterns were obtained. 9
isolates were represented by a unique pattern, whereas 7 were clustered in 2
groups of 5 and 2 isolates, respectively. When compared with an international
spoligodatabase SpolDB4, 13 isolates shared already described spoligotypes,
whereas 3 did not match any existing spoligopattern in database and were defined 
as orphans. Spoligotyping overestimated the number of clustered isolates in one
of its two clusters when compared to IS6110 Mtb1/ /Mtb2 PCR. Strains clustered
using the latter method were assumed to be closely epidemiologically related.
CONCLUSION: This report demonstrates the utility of spoligotyping as an initial
screening technique, to be supplemented by another typing method of greater
discriminatory power, such as the IS6110 Mtb1/Mtb2 PCR in order to better
recognize the epidemiological links between TB patients.


PMID: 17541909  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1496. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2007 Jun;48(6):2831-6.

Effects of periocular administration of triamcinolone acetonide on
leukocyte-endothelium interactions in the ischemic retina.

Mizuno S(1), Nishiwaki A, Morita H, Miyake T, Ogura Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Nagoya City University
Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Nagoya, Japan. simon@pp24.so-net.ne.jp

PURPOSE: Recent studies have reported that intravitreal or posterior sub-Tenon's 
injection of triamcinolone acetonide (TA) is effective in the treatment of
macular edema resulting from retinal microcirculatory disturbances such as
diabetic retinopathy and retinal vein occlusion. The effects of periocular
administration of TA on leukocyte-endothelium interactions were studied after
transient retinal ischemia.
METHODS: Transient retinal ischemia was induced by temporary ligation of the
optic nerve sheath for 60 minutes in male Long-Evans rats. After the induction of
ischemia, experimental eyes received a periocular injection of TA (2 mg). In
control animals, the same volume of saline was administered. Leukocyte dynamics
were evaluated in the retinal microcirculation using acridine orange digital
fluorography. Also, retinal thickness was studied by using optical coherence
tomography and a histologic
METHOD: The retinal mRNA expression of P-selectin and intercellular adhesion
molecule (ICAM)-1 was semiquantitatively studied with RT-PCR.
RESULTS: The leukocytes rolling along retinal vein linings increased after
ischemia in the vehicle-treated rats (32.5 +/- 2.1 cells/min). No rolling
leukocytes, however, were seen in the TA-treated rats. The number of accumulated 
leukocytes was significantly lower in the TA-treated rats (831 +/- 99 cells/mm2) 
than in the control (971 +/- 81 cells/mm2, P < 0.05). The treatment decreased the
retinal thickness and the mRNA expression of P-selectin and ICAM-1.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study demonstrated that the periocular injection of TA
effectively decreased retinal thickness and inhibited leukocyte-endothelium
interactions in the retina after ischemia. Downregulation of adhesion molecules
of retinal vascular endothelium induced by TA may play a role in the course.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.06-1041 
PMID: 17525219  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1497. Gene. 2007 Jun 15;395(1-2):144-50. Epub 2007 Mar 23.

Characterization of a novel mouse brain gene (mbu-1) identified by digital
differential display.

Yang HL(1), Cho EY, Han KH, Kim H, Kim SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Science, Dongguk University, Seoul 100-715, South Korea.

Using in silico approaches, we cloned a novel mouse gene (mbu-1) that was
strictly expressed in the central nervous system. mbu-1 was first identified as
an EST after carrying out digital differential display for unigene libraries from
various mouse tissues. The full-length cDNA sequence was obtained by extending
the ends of EST by RACE. The cDNA sequence was 2611 bp long and contained an ORF 
of 597 AA. A positive cis-acting region was found in the neuroblastomaxglioma
hybrid, NG108-15, and in human embryonic kidney HEK293 cell lines. RT-PCR and in 
situ hybridization analysis showed that the mbu-1 gene was only expressed in the 
brain and spinal cord during the embryonic stages, and throughout all regions of 
the adult brain, showing higher levels in the hippocampus and hypothalamus.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2007.03.005 
PMID: 17433858  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1498. Tsitol Genet. 2007 Jan-Feb;41(1):36-55.

Comparison of microarray and sage techniques in gene expression analysis of human
glioblastoma.

Kavsan VM(1), Dmitrenko VV, Shostak KO, Bukreieva TV, Vitak NY, Simirenko OE,
Malisheva TA, Shamayev MI, Rozumenko VD, Zozulya YA.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Zabolotnogo Str. 150, 03143 Kyiv,
Ukraine. kavsan@imbg.org.ua

To enhance glioblastoma (GB) marker discovery we compared gene expression in GB
with human normal brain (NB) by accessing SAGE Genie web site and compared
obtained results with published data. Nine GB and five NB SAGE-libraries were
analyzed using the Digital Gene Expression Displayer (DGED), the results of DGED 
were tested by Northern blot analysis and RT-PCR of arbitrary selected genes.
Review of available data from the articles on gene expression profiling by
microarray-based hybridization showed as few as 35 overlapped genes with
increased expression in GB. Some of them were identified in four articles, but
most genes in three or even in two investigations. There was found also some
differences between SAGE results of GB analysis. Digital Gene Expression
Displayer approach revealed 676 genes differentially expressed in GB vs. NB with 
cut-off ratio: twofold change and P < or = 0.05. Differential expression of
selectedgenes obtained by DGED was confirmed by Northern analysis and RT-PCR.
Altogether, only 105 of 955 genes presented in published investigations were
among the genes obtained by DGED. Comparison of the results obtained by
microarrays and SAGE is very complicated because authors present only the most
prominent differentially expressed genes. However, even available data give quite
poor overlapping of genes revealed by microarrays. Some differences between
results obtained by SAGE in different investigations can be explained by high
dependence on the statistical methods used. As for now, the best solution to
search for molecular tumor markers is to compare all available results and to
select only those genes, which significant expression in tumor combined with very
low expression in normal tissues was reproduced in several articles. 105
differentially expressed genes, common to both methods, can be included in the
list of candidates for the molecular typing of GBs. Some genes, encoded cell
surface or extra-cellular proteins may be useful for targeting gliomas with
antibody-based therapy.


PMID: 17427416  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1499. Nat Protoc. 2006;1(1):264-75.

COBRA: combined binary ratio labeling of nucleic-acid probes for multi-color
fluorescence in situ hybridization karyotyping.

Szuhai K(1), Tanke HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Cell Biology, Leiden University Medical Center, PO Box
9600 (zone S1-P), 2300 RC Leiden, The Netherlands.

Combined binary ratio labeling (COBRA) is designed to increase the multiplicity
of fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH)--i.e., the number of targets that
can be distinguished simultaneously. In principle, chemical (ULS), enzymatic
(nick translation or random priming) or PCR-based labeling procedures of probes
can be used. The method was originally designed to label chromosome-painting
probes, but has also been used for probe sets specific for subtelomeric regions. 
COBRA imaging requires a digital fluorescence microscope equipped for sequential 
excitation and recording of color images. Staining of all 24 human chromosomes is
accomplished with only four fluorochromes, compared with five for methods based
on combinatorial labeling. The COBRA procedure takes approximately 6 h laboratory
work, 2-3 d incubation and a few hours imaging. The method is routinely applied
in research (cultured cells from human or mouse origin) or to support clinical
diagnosis, such as postnatal and perinatal genetic testing and in solid tumors.

DOI: 10.1038/nprot.2006.41 
PMID: 17406243  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1500. Zhonghua Wei Chang Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2007 Mar;10(2):169-72.

[Identification of gastric cancer-related genes by multiple high throughput
analysis and data mining].

[Article in Chinese]

Meng LX(1), Li Q, Xue YJ, Guo RD, Zhang YQ, Song XY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary Oncology, Tianjin Cancer Hospital, Tianjin Medical
University, Tianjin 300060, China. menglx001623@163.com.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate gastric cancer-related genes by combined multiple high 
throughput analysis and data mining, and to further identify gene markers that
may be useful in the diagnosis and treatment of gastric cancer.
METHODS: Data of expressed sequence tags (EST) and serial analysis of gene
expression (SAGE) in Cancer Genome Anatomy Project (CGAP) were employed to
analyze differential gene expression between normal and cancerous gastric
epithelium,the obtained genes were further analyzed by virtual Northern blotting 
and compared with microarray data from Stanford Microarray Database (SMD).
RESULTS: NCBI digital differential display (DDD), cDNA digital gene expression
displayed (DGED) and SAGE DGED produced 165,286 and 181 differential expression
genes.All these genes were analyzed by virtual Northern blotting and 45 genes
were obtained. Comparing with microarray data, candidate genes were reduced to
12. Further RT-PCR analyses validated 4 genes, including ANXA1, MSMB, ANXA10 and 
PSCA, were differentially expressed in normal and cancerous gastric tissues.
CONCLUSIONS: Combined multiple high throughput analysis and data mining is an
effective strategy for identification of gastric cancer-related genes. Further
analyses of these genes from data mining will provide biomarkers for the
diagnosis and treatment of gastric cancer.


PMID: 17380461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1501. Zhonghua Er Ke Za Zhi. 2007 Jan;45(1):7-13.

[Pathogenesis of retinal neovascularization in a rat model of oxygen
fluctuations-induced retinopathy].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu X(1), Wang W, Wang AR, Ning Q, Luo XP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430030, China.

OBJECTIVE: Fluctuations in arterial oxygen are associated with development of
severe retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) in humans. However, the causal
relationship between oxygen variability and ROP remains unknown. The authors
developed a rat model of retinal neovascularization by repeated fluctuations of
inhaled oxygen between hypoxia and hyperoxia to investigate the mechanism of the 
development of retinal neovascularization, the regulation of vascular endothelial
growth factor (VEGF) and KDR/Flk-1 (VEGFR-2) expression.
METHODS: Two hundred and eight newborn Sprague Dawley rats were randomly divided 
into oxygen and air groups. The oxygen concentration in the oxygen group was
alternated between 50% and 10% every 24 hours for 14 days. The control group were
kept in room air environment. VEGF and Flk-1 expression was observed at 14, 18
and 25 days after birth in both exposed group and control group by
immunohistochemical staining and semiquantitative RT-PCR. The status of retinal
vasculature on day 4 after oxygen exposure was also observed. The retinas were
dissected and stained by using a histochemical method for detecting adenosine
diphosphatase (ADPase) activity, digital images of the retinas were captured and 
the peripheral avascular retina were measured. HE staining on methacrylate
sections of eyes was used for counting the number of nuclei extending from
retinal area into vitreous to identify extraretinal neovascularization. Numeric
data were expressed as the mean +/- standard deviation (SD). Statistical
calculations were performed using the SAS 8.1 statistical package. Differences in
measured variables between experimental and control groups were determined using 
comparison of the means using two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) statistical
calculations and T-test. AP value less than 0.05 was regarded as significant.
RESULTS: (1) The animal model was successfully established: the avascular areas
of retina of 18-day-old rats were larger than those of the control group and the 
numbers of nuclei extending from retinal area into vitreous in exposed group were
significantly higher compared to the control (P < 0.05). (2) The expression of
VEGF and Flk-1 on the 14(th) day in the oxygen group was significantly stronger
than that of the control group (P < 0.05). In the oxygen group, VEGF and Flk-1
expression was the strongest in the retina on the 18(th) day, the result had
significant difference as compared with the 14(th) and 25(th) day (P < 0.05), and
they were also stronger than that of the control group (P < 0.05). The expression
of VEGF and Flk-1 decreased on the 25(th) day and had no significant difference
as compared with the control group (P > 0.05). (3) Both VEGF-mRNA and Flk-1-mRNA 
significantly increased on the 14(th) day and the 18th day (P < 0.05). On the
25(th) day, the amounts of VEGF-mRNA and Flk-1-mRNA were similar between the
control and oxygen group (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Fluctuation in oxygen is associated with the development of retinal
neovascularization in the retinopathy. Increased expressions of VEGF and Flk-1 in
the oxgen fluctuations-induced neovascularized retina suggested that VEGF and
Flk-1 might play a critical role in the pathogenesis of ROP. The results also
indicated the positive feedback in the pathogenesis of ROP that the synergistic
interaction of VEGF and Flk-1 in the retinal vascular proliferation. These
findings provide insight into the effect of repeated oxygen fluctuation on the
development of severe ROP in preterm infants.


PMID: 17349140  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1502. Lab Chip. 2007 Mar;7(3):347-54. Epub 2007 Feb 8.

Integrated microelectronic device for label-free nucleic acid amplification and
detection.

Hou CS(1), Godin M, Payer K, Chakrabarti R, Manalis SR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

We present an integrated microelectronic device for amplification and label-free 
detection of nucleic acids. Amplification by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is
achieved with on-chip metal resistive heaters, temperature sensors, and
microfluidic valves. We demonstrate a rapid thermocycling with rates of up to 50 
degrees C s(-1) and a PCR product yield equivalent to that of a bench-top system.
Amplicons within the PCR product are detected by their intrinsic charge with a
silicon field-effect sensor. Similar to existing optical approaches with
intercalators such as SYBR Green, our sensing approach can directly detect
standard double-stranded PCR product, while in contrast, our sensor does not
require labeling reagents. By combining amplification and detection on the same
device, we show that the presence or absence of a particular DNA sequence can be 
determined by converting the analog surface potential output of the field-effect 
sensor to a simple digital true/false readout.

DOI: 10.1039/b617082j 
PMID: 17330166  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1503. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2006 Nov 7;86(41):2911-5.

[Quantitative detection of differential display code 3 mRNA in peripheral blood
of patients with prostate cancer].

[Article in Chinese]

Weng ZL(1), Yu KY, Mao XL, Tao ZH, Chen XD, Wu XL, Hu YP, Wang SQ, Li CD, Chen
ZG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical College,
Wenzhou 325000, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the expression of DD3 mRNA in the peripheral blood and 
its value in diagnostic of prostate cancer (Pca).
METHODS: Thirty-five untreated Pca patients, aged 72 (53 - 83), 58 Pca patients
treated with endocrinotherapy, aged 74 (53 - 86), and 59 patients with benign
prostatic hyperplasia, aged 71 (48 - 85), underwent peripheral blood sample
collection one week before or after digital examination. RT-PCR was used to
examine the level of DD3 mRNA. The level of prostate specific antigen (PSA) was
detected too. Ten healthy male frontiers, aged 33 (21 - 38), were used as
controls. Receiver operating curve (ROC) was drawn to evaluate the diagnostic
performance of DD3 mRNA.
RESULTS: The DD3 mRNA level of the untreated Pca patients was 2741 copies/ml,
significantly higher than those of the Pca patients treated with
endocrinotherapy, patients with benign hyperplasia, and healthy persons (all < 24
copies, all P < 0.001). The DD3 mRNA level of the endocrinotherapy-treated Pca
patients was significantly higher than those of the patients with benign
hyperplasia, and healthy persons (both P < 0.001). ROC analysis showed that when 
the critical value was 846 copies/ml the area under curve of ROC (AUC-ROC) was
0.8233 (95% CI: 0.725 - 0.910). and the sensitivity was 74.34%, the specificity
was 89.8%. The DD3 mRNA in the peripheral blood increased along with the increase
of clinical staging (P < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: The level of DD3 mRNA in the peripheral blood is an excellent marker 
for diagnosis pf Pca, and may help in monitoring of the curative effects of
endocrinotherapy.


PMID: 17288789  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1504. Biol Reprod. 2007 Jun;76(6):949-57. Epub 2007 Feb 7.

Allocation of gamma-tubulin between oocyte cortex and meiotic spindle influences 
asymmetric cytokinesis in the mouse oocyte.

Barrett SL(1), Albertini DF.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Cellular, Molecular and Developmental Biology, Tufts University
School of Medicine, Boston, MA 02111, USA.

In oocytes, asymmetric cytokinesis represents a conserved strategy for
karyokinesis during meiosis to retain ooplasmic maternal factors needed after
fertilization. Given the role of gamma-tubulin in cell cycle progression and
microtubule dynamics, this study focused on gamma-tubulin as a key regulator of
asymmetric cytokinesis in mouse oocytes. Gamma-tubulin properties were studied
using multiple-label digital imaging, Western blots, quantitative RT-PCR, and
microinjection strategies in mouse oocytes matured in vivo (IVO) or in vitro
(IVM). Quantitative image analysis established that IVO oocytes extrude smaller
first polar bodies (PBs), contain smaller spindles, and have more cytoplasmic
microtubule organizing centers (MTOCs) relative to IVM oocytes. Maturation in
culture was shown to alter gamma-tubulin distribution, as evidenced by
incorporation throughout the meiotic spindle and within the first PB. Western
blot analysis confirmed that total gamma-tubulin content remained elevated in IVM
oocytes compared with IVO oocytes. Analysis of gamma-tubulin mRNA during
maturation revealed fluctuations in IVO oocytes, whereas IVM oocytes maintained
relatively stable at lower levels for the time points examined (0-16 h).
Selective reduction of gamma-tubulin mRNA by injection of siRNA diminished both
spindle and PB size, whereas overexpression of enhanced green fluorescent protein
gamma-tubulin had the opposite effect. Together, these studies reinforce the
notion that limiting gamma-tubulin availability during meiotic maturation ensures
coordination of karyokinesis and cytokinesis and conservation of gamma-tubulin as
an embryonic reserve.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.106.057141 
PMID: 17287496  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1505. Planta. 2007 Jun;226(1):109-23. Epub 2007 Feb 2.

Genome-wide identification and characterization of putative cytochrome P450 genes
in the model legume Medicago truncatula.

Li L(1), Cheng H, Gai J, Yu D.

Author information: 
(1)National Center for Soybean Improvement, National Key Laboratory of Crop
Genetics and Germplasm Enhancement, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing,
210095, People's Republic of China.

In plants, cytochrome P450 is a group of monooxygenases existing as a gene
superfamily and plays important roles in metabolizing physiologically important
compounds. However, to date only a limited number of P450s have been identified
and characterized in legumes. In this study, data mining methods were used, and
151 putative P450 genes in the model legume Medicago truncatula were identified, 
including 135 novel sequences. These genes were classified into 9 clans and 44
families by sequence similarity, and among those 4 new clans and 21 new families 
not reported previously in legumes. By comparison of these genes with P450 genes 
in Arabidopsis and rice, it was found that most of the known P450 families in
dicot species exist in M. truncatula. The representative protein sequences of
putative P450s were aligned, and the secondary elements were assigned based on
the known structure P450BM3. Putative substrate recognition sites (SRSs) and
substrate binding sites were also identified in these sequences. In addition, the
ESTs-derived expression profiles (digital Northern) of the putative P450 genes
were analyzed, which was confirmed by semi-quantitative RT-PCR analyses of
several selected P450 genes. These results will provide a base for catalogue
information on P450 genes in M. truncatula and for further functional analysis of
P450 superfamily genes in legumes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00425-006-0473-z 
PMID: 17273868  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1506. J Hum Genet. 2007;52(4):370-3. Epub 2007 Jan 31.

A Japanese case of oto-palato-digital syndrome type II: an apparent lack of
phenotype-genotype correlation.

Kondoh T(1), Okamoto N, Norimatsu N, Uetani M, Nishimura G, Moriuchi H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Nagasaki University Graduate School of Biomedical
Sciences, 1-7-1, Sakamoto, Nagasaki, Japan. kontatsu@net.nagasaki-u.ac.jp

We report the case of a 12 year-old boy with oto-palato-digital syndrome type II 
(OPD II). He had various anomalies at birth, including bilateral cataracts,
bilateral glaucoma, bilateral severe hearing impairment, congenital heart defect,
umbilical herniation, bowed extremities and constrictions of various joints.
These clinical features and whole body X-ray findings were compatible with OPD
II. However, his ocular disorders such as congenital cataract and glaucoma, and
congenital heart defect have never been associated with OPD II as far as we know.
His chromosomal analysis revealed normal karyotype, 46,XY. Analysis of the
filamin A gene using a standard PCR-direct sequencing method determined a C586T
(Arg196Trp) missense mutation in exon 3. Interestingly, the same C586T mutation
was reported previously in a patient with OPD I (mild form). Thus,
phenotype-genotype correlation of OPD is lacking in those patients. Further
clinical and genetic studies are needed to clarify the relationship between
phenotypes and genotypes, or to identify other factor(s) that influence the
clinical features of this syndrome.

DOI: 10.1007/s10038-007-0108-7 
PMID: 17264970  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1507. FEMS Microbiol Lett. 2007 Apr;269(1):48-53. Epub 2007 Jan 11.

Quantitation of Guggenheimella bovis and treponemes in bovine tissues related to 
digital dermatitis.

Strub S(1), van der Ploeg JR, Nuss K, Wyss C, Luginbühl A, Steiner A.

Author information: 
(1)Clinic for Ruminants, Vetsuisse Faculty of the University of Berne,
Bremgartenstrasse, Bern, Switzerland. sarah.strub@knp.unibe.ch

Digital dermatitis is an inflammation of uncertain aetiology in the skin of the
foot of cattle. In 2005, a novel microorganism, Guggenheimella bovis, was
isolated from the advancing front of digital dermatitis lesions, suggesting a
possible role in pathogenesis. In the present study, tissue samples of 20
affected cows were examined by quantitative PCR for G. bovis, treponemes and the 
total eubacterial load. High numbers of eubacteria and treponemes were found in
most lesions, whereas only a few lesions contained Guggenheimella, and only at
low concentrations. The results argue against the relevance of G. bovis in the
aetiology of digital dermatitis in cattle, but are consistent with a role for
treponemes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1574-6968.2006.00604.x 
PMID: 17229062  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1508. Br J Dermatol. 2007 Jan;156(1):38-44.

Assessment of the presence of mucosal human papillomaviruses in malignant
melanomas using combined fluorescent in situ hybridization and chemiluminescent
immunohistochemistry.

Ambretti S(1), Venturoli S, Mirasoli M, La Placa M, Bonvicini F, Cricca M,
Zerbini M, Roda A, Musiani M.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Microbiology, Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine,
University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The vast majority of studies aimed at detecting human papillomavirus 
(HPV) DNA in skin cancer have used sensitive polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
methods but the PCR technique, despite its high sensitivity, is not suitable to
ascertain whether (i) the presence of HPV can be related only to few cells
harbouring the virus, (ii) the presence of HPV is due to a tumour surface
contamination and (iii) the presence of HPV is localized in cancer cells, rather 
than in normal keratinocytes present in the tumour biopsy. In a recent work we
have found mucosal high-risk (HR) HPV genotypes in primary melanoma by PCR.
OBJECTIVES: To localize mucosal HR-HPV nucleic acids and tumoural melanocytic
marker in the same sections of primary melanoma samples in order to understand
the relationship between HPVs and melanoma cells.
METHODS: We have developed a very sensitive method that combines an
enzyme-amplified fluorescent in situ hybridization (ISH) for the detection of HPV
nucleic acids (types 16 and 18) with a chemiluminescent immunohistochemistry
(IHC) method for the detection of the tumoural melanocytic marker HMB-45
sequentially in the same section. Digital images of fluorescent ISH and
chemiluminescent IHC were separately recorded, assigned different colours and
merged using specific software for image analysis.
RESULTS: The combined fluorescent ISH and chemiluminescent IHC demonstrated a
sharp colocalization (in the range 60-80%) of HPV nucleic acids and melanoma
marker inside the same sections of melanoma biopsies, with a strong specificity
and sensitivity.
CONCLUSIONS: The strong colocalization of mucosal HR-HPV nucleic acids and HMB-45
melanocytic marker emphasized that viral nucleic acids were specifically present 
in melanoma cells and supported a possible active role of HPV in malignant
melanoma.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2133.2006.07541.x 
PMID: 17199564  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1509. J Biomed Mater Res B Appl Biomater. 2007 Aug;82(2):275-83.

BMP-7 loaded microspheres as a new delivery system for the cultivation of human
chondrocytes in a collagen type-I gel.

Gavénis K(1), Klee D, Pereira-Paz RM, von Walter M, Mollenhauer J, Schneider U,
Schmidt-Rohlfing B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Aachen University Hospital, Germany.

In recent years, interest in chondrocyte cultures for transplantation has gained 
increasing attention. We investigated the use of PGLA microspheres as a new
delivery system for BMP-7 and the effects on human chondrocytes cultivated in a
3D collagen gel culture. In an in vitro study, human chondrocytes obtained from
osteoarthritic knee joints were released, transferred into a collagen type-I gel,
and cultivated up to 14 days. In the treatment group PGLA microspheres loaded
with human recombinant BMP-7 protein were added to the matrix. After the
cultivation period, histological and immunohistochemical investigations were
performed. In addition, the aggrecan core protein and type-II collagen mRNA
concentrations were measured by real-time PCR. Histological staining for
proteoglycan and collagen type-II protein and quantification via digital image
processing revealed a significantly higher content in the samples cultivated with
BMP-7 loaded microspheres in comparison to the control samples. Moreover, the
collagen gel scaffold was partially remodeled by the chondrocytes and replaced by
newly synthesized extracellular matrix. Cellular proliferation as well as
apoptosis were low. In conclusion, we consider the PGLA microsphere system to be 
a functional device for the delivery of growth factors during the cultivation of 
articular chondrocytes leading to an increased content of type-II collagen and
proteoglycan in the extracellular matrix.

DOI: 10.1002/jbm.b.30731 
PMID: 17183563  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1510. J Orthop Surg Res. 2006 Dec 6;1:15.

Differential expression of type X collagen in a mechanically active 3-D
chondrocyte culture system: a quantitative study.

Yang X(1), Vezeridis PS, Nicholas B, Crisco JJ, Moore DC, Chen Q.

Author information: 
(1)Orthopaedic Research Laboratories, Department of Orthopaedics, Brown Medical
School/Rhode Island Hospital, Providence, RI 02903, USA. xu_yang@brown.edu

OBJECTIVE: Mechanical loading of cartilage influences chondrocyte metabolism and 
gene expression. The gene encoding type X collagen is expressed specifically by
hypertrophic chondrocytes and up regulated during osteoarthritis. In this study
we tested the hypothesis that the mechanical microenvironment resulting from
higher levels of local strain in a three dimensional cell culture construct would
lead to an increase in the expression of type X collagen mRNA by chondrocytes in 
those areas.
METHODS: Hypertrophic chondrocytes were isolated from embryonic chick sterna and 
seeded onto rectangular Gelfoam sponges. Seeded sponges were subjected to various
levels of cyclic uniaxial tensile strains at 1 Hz with the computer-controlled
Bio-Stretch system. Strain distribution across the sponge was quantified by
digital image analysis. After mechanical loading, sponges were cut and the end
and center regions were separated according to construct strain distribution.
Total RNA was extracted from the cells harvested from these regions, and
real-time quantitative RT-PCR was performed to quantify mRNA levels for type X
collagen and a housing-keeping gene 18S RNA.
RESULTS: Chondrocytes distributed in high (9%) local strain areas produced more
than two times type X collagen mRNA compared to the those under no load
conditions, while chondrocytes located in low (2.5%) local strain areas had no
appreciable difference in type X collagen mRNA production in comparison to
non-loaded samples. Increasing local strains above 2.5%, either in the center or 
end regions of the sponge, resulted in increased expression of Col X mRNA by
chondrocytes in that region.
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that the threshold of chondrocyte sensitivity 
to inducing type X collagen mRNA production is more than 2.5% local strain, and
that increased local strains above the threshold results in an increase of Col X 
mRNA expression. Such quantitative analysis has important implications for our
understanding of mechanosensitivity of cartilage and mechanical regulation of
chondrocyte gene expression.

DOI: 10.1186/1749-799X-1-15 
PMCID: PMC1764003
PMID: 17150098 


1511. Science. 2006 Dec 1;314(5804):1464-7.

Microfluidic digital PCR enables multigene analysis of individual environmental
bacteria.

Ottesen EA(1), Hong JW, Quake SR, Leadbetter JR.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA 91125,
USA.

Gene inventory and metagenomic techniques have allowed rapid exploration of
bacterial diversity and the potential physiologies present within microbial
communities. However, it remains nontrivial to discover the identities of
environmental bacteria carrying two or more genes of interest. We have used
microfluidic digital polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to amplify and analyze
multiple, different genes obtained from single bacterial cells harvested from
nature. A gene encoding a key enzyme involved in the mutualistic symbiosis
occurring between termites and their gut microbiota was used as an experimental
hook to discover the previously unknown ribosomal RNA-based species identity of
several symbionts. The ability to systematically identify bacteria carrying a
particular gene and to link any two or more genes of interest to single species
residing in complex ecosystems opens up new opportunities for research on the
environment.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1131370 
PMID: 17138901  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1512. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2006 Nov 21;103(47):17807-12. Epub 2006 Nov 10.

Transcription factor profiling in individual hematopoietic progenitors by digital
RT-PCR.

Warren L(1), Bryder D, Weissman IL, Quake SR.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA 91125,
USA.

We report here a systematic, quantitative population analysis of transcription
factor expression within developmental progenitors, made possible by a
microfluidic chip-based "digital RT-PCR" assay that can count template molecules 
in cDNA samples prepared from single cells. In a survey encompassing five classes
of early hematopoietic precursor, we found markedly heterogeneous expression of
the transcription factor PU.1 in hematopoietic stem cells and divergent patterns 
of PU.1 expression within flk2- and flk2+ common myeloid progenitors. The survey 
also revealed significant differences in the level of the housekeeping transcript
GAPDH across the surveyed populations, which demonstrates caveats of normalizing 
expression data to endogenous controls and underscores the need to put gene
measurement on an absolute, copy-per-cell basis.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0608512103 
PMCID: PMC1693828
PMID: 17098862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1513. Mol Cancer. 2006 Sep 10;5:36.

Somatic deletion of the NF1 gene in a neurofibromatosis type 1-associated
malignant melanoma demonstrated by digital PCR.

Rübben A(1), Bausch B, Nikkels A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital RWTH Aachen, Pauwelsstrasse 30,
D-52074 Aachen, Germany. albert.ruebben@post.rwth-aachen.de

BACKGROUND: Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is the most common hereditary
neurocutaneous disorder and it is associated with an elevated risk for malignant 
tumors of tissues derived from neural crest cells. The NF1 gene is considered a
tumor suppressor gene and inactivation of both copies can be found in
NF1-associated benign and malignant tumors. Melanocytes also derive from neural
crest cells but melanoma incidence is not markedly elevated in NF1. In this study
we could analyze a typical superficial spreading melanoma of a 15-year-old boy
with NF1 for loss of heterozygosity (LOH) within the NF1 gene. Neurofibromatosis 
in this patient was transmitted by the boy's farther who carried the mutation NF1
c. 5546 G/A.
RESULTS: Melanoma cells were isolated from formalin-fixed tissue by liquid
coverslip laser microdissection. In order to obtain statistically significant LOH
data, digital PCR was performed at the intragenic microsatellite IVS27AC28 with
DNA of approx. 3500 melanoma cells. Digital PCR detected 23 paternal alleles and 
one maternal allele. Statistical analysis by SPRT confirmed significance of the
maternal allele loss.
CONCLUSION: To our knowledge, this is the first molecular evidence of
inactivation of both copies of the NF1 gene in a typical superficial spreading
melanoma of a patient with NF1. The classical double-hit inactivation of the NF1 
gene suggests that the NF1 genetic background promoted melanoma genesis in this
patient.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-4598-5-36 
PMCID: PMC1570477
PMID: 16961930  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1514. Am J Vet Res. 2006 Sep;67(9):1595-600.

Effects of platelet-derived growth factor-BB on the metabolic function and
morphologic features of equine tendon in explant culture.

Haupt JL(1), Donnelly BP, Nixon AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Comparative Orthopaedics Laboratory, College of Veterinary Medicine, Cornell
University, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effects of recombinant human platelet-derived growth
factor-BB (rhPDGF-BB) on the metabolic function and morphologic features of
equine superficial digital flexor tendon (SDFT) in explant culture. Animals-6
euthanized horses (2 to 5 years old).
METHODS: Forelimb SDFT explants were cultured for 6 days as untreated control
specimens or treated with rhPDGF-BB (1, 10, 50, or 100 ng/mL of medium).
Treatment effects on explant gene expression were evaluated via real-time PCR
analysis of collagen type I, collagen type III, PDGF-A, and PDGF-B mRNA. Explants
were assayed for total collagen, glycosaminoglycan, and DNA content; histologic
changes were assessed via H and E staining and immunohistochemical localization
of collagen types I and III.
RESULTS: No morphologic or proliferative changes were detected in tendon explant 
sections. After high-dose rhPDGF-BB treatment, gene expression of collagen types 
I and III was increased and decreased, respectively. Expression of PDGF-A and
PDGF-B mRNA was significantly increased at 24 hours, but later decreased to have 
few or negative autoinductive effects. Although PDGF gene expression waned after 
48 hours of culture, collagen type I gene expression was significantly increased 
at 48 hours and reached peak value on day 6. Glycosaminoglycan and DNA content of
explants were unchanged with rhPDGF-BB treatment.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Results suggest that rhPDGF-BB use may be of 
benefit in the repair of equine tendon, particularly through induction of
collagen type I mRNA. Positive autoinductive effects of PDGF-BB in equine SDFT
explants were detected early following culture medium supplementation, but these 
diminished with time.

DOI: 10.2460/ajvr.67.9.1595 
PMID: 16948608  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1515. Am J Vet Res. 2006 Jul;67(7):1218-25.

Nucleotide structure of equine platelet-derived growth factor-A and -B and
expression in horses with induced acute tendinitis.

Donnelly BP(1), Nixon AJ, Haupt JL, Dahlgren LA.

Author information: 
(1)Comparative Orthopaedics Laboratory, Department of Clinical Sciences, College 
of Veterinary Medicine, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA.

Erratum in
    Am J Vet Res. 2006 Sep;67(9):1627.

OBJECTIVE: To characterize the nucleotide sequence of equine platelet-derived
growth factor (PDGF)-A and -B and analyze temporal expression of these genes in
equine tendon after induced tendinitis injury. Animals-18 mature horses.
PROCEDURES: Genes for equine PDGF-A and -B were reverse transcribed and sequenced
from synovial tissue mRNA obtained from a 3-year-old horse. Collagenase-induced
lesions were created in the tensile region of the superficial digital flexor
tendon in 14 horses; 3 horses served as uninjured control animals. Tendons were
harvested and total RNA was isolated from experimental horses 1, 2, 4, 8, and 24 
weeks after collagenase injection. Temporal gene expression for PDGF-A and -B was
determined by use of quantitative PCR analysis.
RESULTS: Equine PDGF-A shared 83.8% sequence and 87.5% peptide homology with
human PDGF-A, with a discrepancy of 70 bp from the human sequence. Equine PDGF-B 
was similar in length to the human gene, sharing 90.3% and 91.7% nucleotide and
peptide identity, respectively. Expression of PDGF-A mRNA in collagenase-induced 
tendinitis lesions was unchanged, compared with expression for normal control
tendon, and remained steady throughout the 24-week study. Expression of PDGF-B
mRNA decreased over time, and the expression at 24 weeks was significantly
reduced, compared with expression in normal and acutely injured tendon.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Injured tendon mounts a minimal constitutive 
PDGF-A or -B mRNA response. Serial exogenous treatment with either PDGF isoform
within the first 2 to 4 weeks after tendon injury may bolster the meager PDGF
paracrine-autocrine intrinsic response to injury.

DOI: 10.2460/ajvr.67.7.1218 
PMID: 16817746  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1516. Jpn J Vet Res. 2006 May;54(1):25-30.

Experimental transmission of Bovine leukemia virus in cattle via rectal
palpation.

Kohara J(1), Konnai S, Onuma M.

Author information: 
(1)Hokkaido Animal Research Center, Shintoku, Hokkaido 081-0038, Japan.
koharajn@agri.pref.hokkaido.jp

We examined whether Bovine leukemia virus (BLV) was transmitted by rectal
palpation using a common sleeve between a BLV-infected cow and BLV-negative
steers. Three of four steers developed antibodies against BLV as determined by
agar-gel immunodiffusion (AGID) test between 7 to 10 weeks after the first rectal
palpation using common sleeves from BLV-infected cow. In the steers, BLV proviral
DNA were detected by PCR 1 to 5 weeks earlier than detection of the antibodies by
the AGID test. Our experiments demonstrated that rectal palpation is a potential 
cause of BLV spread in herds and that detection of BLV proviral DNA in cattle by 
PCR is useful screening test for early diagnosis of BLV infection.


PMID: 16786975  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1517. Oncol Res. 2006;16(1):35-41.

The role of cell-free DNA size distribution in the management of prostate cancer.

Boddy JL(1), Gal S, Malone PR, Shaida N, Wainscoat JS, Harris AL.

Author information: 
(1)The Harold Hopkins Department of Urology, Royal Berkshire Hospital, Reading,
RG30 1AG, UK.

Cell-free DNA has been shown to have diagnostic potential in a number of
malignant diseases. Recently, the integrity or size distribution of these
fragments has also been identified as having possible diagnostic value. The
current study explores the role of this novel parameter in the clinical diagnosis
of prostate cancer. Plasma samples, collected prospectively from men undergoing
investigation for prostate cancer, were used to obtain a cell-free DNA sample.
Real-time PCR was used to quantify the level of cell-free DNA (ng/ml) and its
size distribution (delta CD in each case. Sixty-one samples were collected from
patients with prostate cancer and 62 from those with benign histology. Analysis
failed to reveal a statistically significant relationship between either the
level of cell-free DNA (p = 0.82) or its size distribution (p = 0.91) and the
presence of cancer. These results demonstrate that cell-free DNA is unlikely to
be of diagnostic value in the clinical management of this disease.


PMID: 16783966  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1518. Cancer Res. 2006 Jun 15;66(12):6312-8.

Notch3 gene amplification in ovarian cancer.

Park JT(1), Li M, Nakayama K, Mao TL, Davidson B, Zhang Z, Kurman RJ, Eberhart
CG, Shih IeM, Wang TL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gynecology, The Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore,
Maryland 21231, USA.

Gene amplification is one of the common mechanisms that activate oncogenes. In
this study, we used single nucleotide polymorphism array to analyze genome-wide
DNA copy number alterations in 31 high-grade ovarian serous carcinomas, the most 
lethal gynecologic neoplastic disease in women. We identified an amplicon at
19p13.12 in 6 of 31 (19.5%) ovarian high-grade serous carcinomas. This
amplification was validated by digital karyotyping, quantitative real-time PCR,
and dual-color fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis. Comprehensive 
mRNA expression analysis of all 34 genes within the minimal amplicon identified
Notch3 as the gene that showed most significant overexpression in amplified
tumors compared with nonamplified tumors. Furthermore, Notch3 DNA copy number is 
positively correlated with Notch3 protein expression based on parallel
immunohistochemistry and FISH studies in 111 high-grade tumors. Inactivation of
Notch3 by both gamma-secretase inhibitor and Notch3-specific small interfering
RNA suppressed cell proliferation and induced apoptosis in the cell lines that
overexpressed Notch3 but not in those with minimal amount of Notch3 expression.
These results indicate that Notch3 is required for proliferation and survival of 
Notch3-amplified tumors and inactivation of Notch3 can be a potential therapeutic
approach for ovarian carcinomas.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-05-3610 
PMID: 16778208  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1519. Am J Med Genet A. 2006 Jul 1;140(13):1375-83.

Frequency of genomic rearrangements involving the SHFM3 locus at chromosome 10q24
in syndromic and non-syndromic split-hand/foot malformation.

Everman DB(1), Morgan CT, Lyle R, Laughridge ME, Bamshad MJ, Clarkson KB, Colby
R, Gurrieri F, Innes AM, Roberson J, Schrander-Stumpel C, van Bokhoven H,
Antonarakis SE, Schwartz CE.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular Studies, J.C. Self Research Institute of Human Genetics, 
Greenwood Genetic Center, 113 Gregor Mendel Circle, Greenwood, SC 29646, USA.
deverman@ggc.org

Split-hand/foot malformation (SHFM), or ectrodactyly, is characterized by
underdeveloped or absent central digital rays, clefts of the hands and feet, and 
variable syndactyly of the remaining digits. SHFM occurs as both an isolated
finding and a component of many syndromes. SHFM is a heterogeneous condition
caused by multiple loci, including SHFM1 (chromosome region 7q21-q22), SHFM2
(Xq26), SHFM3 (10q24), SHFM4 (3q27), and SHFM5 (2q31). Mutations in TP63 at the
SHFM4 locus are known to underlie both syndromic and non-syndromic forms SHFM,
but the causes of most non-syndromic SHFM cases remain unknown. The recent
identification of submicroscopic tandem chromosome duplications affecting the
SHFM3 locus in seven families with non-syndromic SHFM has helped to further
unravel the molecular basis of this malformation. In our ongoing studies of the
SHFM3 locus in 44 additional cases of syndromic and non-syndromic SHFM, we have
identified similar chromosome rearrangements in eight additional cases (18%),
using pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE). We have also utilized real-time
quantitative PCR (qPCR) to test for the duplications. Seven of the cases with
rearrangements were non-syndromic. The current findings bring the total of
SHFM3-associated cases with chromosome rearrangements to 15, which constitute 29%
(15 of 51) of the cases screened to date. This includes 9 of 9 cases (100%) with 
known linkage to the SHFM3 locus, all of whom have non-syndromic SHFM, and 6 of
42 additional cases (14%), four of whom have non-syndromic SHFM. Thus, SHFM3
abnormalities underlie a substantial proportion of SHFM cases and appear to be a 
more frequent cause of non-syndromic SHFM than mutations in TP63.

(c) 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.31246 
PMID: 16761290  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1520. Biomed Microdevices. 2006 Sep;8(3):215-25.

Integrated polymerase chain reaction chips utilizing digital microfluidics.

Chang YH(1), Lee GB, Huang FC, Chen YY, Lin JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Engineering Science, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan,
Taiwan 701.

This study reports an integrated microfluidic chip for polymerase chain reaction 
(PCR) applications utilizing digital microfluidic chip (DMC) technology. Several 
crucial procedures including sample transportation, mixing, and DNA amplification
were performed on the integrated chip using electro-wetting-on-dielectric (EWOD) 
effect. An innovative concept of hydrophobic/hydrophilic structure has been
successfully demonstrated to integrate the DMC chip with the on-chip PCR device. 
Sample droplets were generated, transported and mixed by the EWOD-actuation. Then
the mixture droplets were transported to a PCR chamber by utilizing the
hydrophilic/hydrophobic interface to generate required surface tension gradient. 
A micro temperature sensor and two micro heaters inside the PCR chamber along
with a controller were used to form a micro temperature control module, which
could perform precise PCR thermal cycling for DNA amplification. In order to
demonstrate the performance of the integrated DMC/PCR chips, a detection gene for
Dengue II virus was successfully amplified and detected. The new integrated
DMC/PCR chips only required an operation voltage of 12V(RMS) at a frequency of 3 
KHz for digital microfluidic actuation and 9V(DC) for thermal cycling. When
compared to its large-scale counterparts for DNA amplification, the developed
system consumed less sample and reagent and could reduce the detection time. The 
developed chips successfully demonstrated the feasibility of Lab-On-a-Chip (LOC) 
by utilizing EWOD-based digital microfluidics.

DOI: 10.1007/s10544-006-8171-y 
PMID: 16718406  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1521. J Surg Res. 2006 Oct;135(2):345-51. Epub 2006 May 22.

Early increased MT1-MMP expression and late MMP-2 and MMP-9 activity during
Angiotensin II induced aneurysm formation.

Eagleton MJ(1), Ballard N, Lynch E, Srivastava SD, Upchurch GR Jr, Stanley JC.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of Michigan
Medical School, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA. eagletm@ccf.org

BACKGROUND: Angiotensin II (Ang II) is associated with a variety of
cardiovascular diseases including aneurysm formation. The aim of this study was
to evaluate the temporal changes in MT1-matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) and MMP-2 
and -9 expression and activity during the course of Ang II induced experimental
aneurysm formation.
METHODS: Apolipoprotein E knockout mice (ApoE null) were infused with either 1000
ng/kg/min of Ang II (n = 20) or saline (n = 20) and then sacrificed at 7, 14, 21,
and 28 days of infusion (n = 5/group/strain). Aortic diameters were measured by
digital microscopy. Systolic blood pressure (SBP) was measured in the rodent
tail. Suprarenal abdominal aortas had MT1-MMP mRNA levels and MMP-2 and MMP-9
mRNA levels and activity quantitated using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain
reaction (rt-PCR) and gelatin zymography, respectively. Statistical analyses
included nonpaired t-test, Fisher's exact test, and analysis of variance (ANOVA).
RESULTS: Aneurysms occurred in 40, 40, 20, and 80% of ApoE null-Ang II mice at 7,
14, 21, and 28 days, respectively. An early and significant rise in MT1-MMP mRNA 
occurred in ApoE null mice infused with Ang II mice, while there was no
significant change in MMP-2 or MMP-9 mRNA levels. Total MMP-2 and MMP-9 activity 
increased over time in ApoE null mice infused with Ang II, peaking at 28 days
(ANOVA, P < 0.01). SBP was significantly elevated by 7 days in ApoE null mice
infused with Ang II compared to ApoE null mice infused with saline (123 +/- 16
versus 102 +/- 6 mm Hg, P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Angiotensin II induces an early increase in aortic MT1-MMP
expression with a subsequent increase in MMP-2 and MMP-9 activity. The process by
which these changes cause aneurysm formation warrants further investigation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jss.2006.03.026 
PMID: 16716358  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1522. BMC Genomics. 2006 May 19;7:119.

Differential gene expression in abdomens of the malaria vector mosquito,
Anopheles gambiae, after sugar feeding, blood feeding and Plasmodium berghei
infection.

Dana AN(1), Hillenmeyer ME, Lobo NF, Kern MK, Romans PA, Collins FH.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Tropical Disease Research and Training, Department of Biological
Sciences, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN 46556, USA. adana@iupui.edu

BACKGROUND: Large scale sequencing of cDNA libraries can provide profiles of
genes expressed in an organism under defined biological and environmental
circumstances. We have analyzed sequences of 4541 Expressed Sequence Tags (ESTs) 
from 3 different cDNA libraries created from abdomens from Plasmodium
infection-susceptible adult female Anopheles gambiae. These libraries were made
from sugar fed (S), rat blood fed (RB), and P. berghei-infected (IRB) mosquitoes 
at 30 hours after the blood meal, when most parasites would be transforming
ookinetes or very early oocysts.
RESULTS: The S, RB and IRB libraries contained 1727, 1145 and 1669 high quality
ESTs, respectively, averaging 455 nucleotides (nt) in length. They assembled into
1975 consensus sequences--567 contigs and 1408 singletons. Functional annotation 
was performed to annotate probable molecular functions of the gene products and
the biological processes in which they function. Genes represented at high
frequency in one or more of the libraries were subjected to digital Northern
analysis and results on expression of 5 verified by qRT-PCR.
CONCLUSION: 13% of the 1965 ESTs showing identity to the A. gambiae genome
sequence represent novel genes. These, together with untranslated regions (UTR)
present on many of the ESTs, will inform further genome annotation. We have
identified 23 genes encoding products likely to be involved in regulating the
cellular oxidative environment and 25 insect immunity genes. We also identified
25 genes as being up or down regulated following blood feeding and/or feeding
with P. berghei infected blood relative to their expression levels in sugar fed
females.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-7-119 
PMCID: PMC1508153
PMID: 16712725  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1523. Zhong Xi Yi Jie He Xue Bao. 2006 May;4(3):307-10.

[Effects of kangfengshi granules on expressions of osteoprotegerin, RANKL and
M-CSF in bone tissues of rats with collagen-induced arthritis].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu YH(1), Zhang HY, Zang HM, Cheng JC, Li YM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Second Hospital, Xioan Jiaotong University, Xi'an, 
Shaanxi Province 710004, China. liuyiheng_xjtu@sohu.com

OBJECTIVE: To observe the effects of Kangfengshi Granules (KFSG) on expressions
of the mRNAs of osteoprotegerin (OPG), receptor activator of nuclear
factor-kappaB ligand (RANKL) and macrophage colony stimulating factor (M-CSF) in 
bone tissues of rats with collagen-induced arthritis.
METHODS: Forty SD rats were randomly divided into four groups: normal control
group, untreated group, cyclosporine A (CsA)-treated group and KFSG-treated
group. Except the rats in the normal control group, all the other rats received
subcutaneous injection of collagen II to establish collagen-induced arthritis
(CIA) models. Then the rats in each group were fed normal saline or corresponding
drugs for four weeks. Total RNA was extracted from carpal and digital bones. The 
expressions of OPG, RANKL and M-CSF mRNAs were examined by real-time PCR.
RESULTS: The total incidence of arthritis induced by collagen II in the rats was 
approximately 90%. The expression levels of RANKL and M-CSF mRNAs and the RANKL
mRNA/OPG mRNA ratio in the untreated group, KFSG-treated group and CsA-treated
group were all significantly higher than those in the normal control group, while
the expression levels of OPG mRNA in those three groups were significantly lower 
than that in the normal control group. The expression level of OPG mRNA in the
KFSG-treated group was obviously higher while the expression level of M-CSF mRNA 
and the RANKL mRNA/OPG mRNA ratio in the same group were both lower as compared
with those in the untreated group.
CONCLUSION: The molecular mechanism of effects of KFSG on bone erosion and
destruction induced by rheumatoid arthritis is closely correlated with
up-regulating the expression of OPG mRNA, down-regulating the expression of M-CSF
mRNA and RANKL mRNA/OPG mRNA ratio.


PMID: 16696922  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1524. Electrophoresis. 2006 Jul;27(14):2865-8.

A new method of competitive reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction with 
SYBR Gold staining for quantitative analysis of mRNA.

Oba R(1), Kudo Y, Sato N, Noda R, Otsuka Y.

Author information: 
(1)Ochanomizu University, Institute of Environmental Science for Human Life,
Otsuka, Bunkyo, Tokyo, Japan.

There are several methods available to analyze the mRNA concentration
quantitatively. Among them, the competitive reverse transcription (RT-)PCR method
is very useful. For this method, Cy5-labeled primers were used, and after gel
electrophoresis in 7 M urea, the Cy5-labeled single-strand DNA was measured by a 
fluorescence detector. However, as the equipment to measure the Cy5-labeled
fluorescence is expensive, we developed a new method using SYBR Gold staining.
After gel electrophoresis in 7 M urea, the single-strand PCR product DNA was
stained with SYBR Gold, and photographed with a standard UV-transilluminator and 
a standard digital camera with a specific filter for SYBR Gold staining. The
photographic image was digitized by an imaging software. We measured beta-actin
and plasma glutathione peroxidase (Gpx3) mRNA concentrations of HepG2 cell
cultured at 5 and 20% oxygen tension. The Gpx3 expression was increased by
hypoxia. The result was equivalent to the data obtained by the real-time PCR
analysis.

DOI: 10.1002/elps.200500568 
PMID: 16688698  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1525. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2006 Mar 14;86(10):652-8.

[A DNA duplication at chromosome 10q24.3 is associated with split-hand split-foot
malformation in a Chinese family].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang W(1), Hu ZJ, Yu XF, Li QH, Zhang AJ, Deng X, Zhang AY, Gao CS, Liu Y, Ao Y, 
Lo WH, Zhang X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Genetics & National Key Laboratory of Medical Molecular 
Biology, Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100005, China.

OBJECTIVE: To identify the disease-causing genetic alteration of
split-hand/split-foot malformation (SHFM) in a Chinese family.
METHODS: Three of the 5 affected individuals from a four-generation Chinese SHFM 
family were examined physically and radiologically. Peripheral blood samples were
collected from Digital photographs of the malformed hands and feet were taken.
Peripheral blood samples were collected from 2 affected individuals, and
lymphocytes were isolated to undergo high resolution G-banding. Genomic DNA was
extracted from the whole blood samples of 4 available family members, including
the 3 affected individuals. All 16 exons and their flanking intronic sequences of
the TP63 gene were amplified using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and sequenced 
directly. Microsatellite markers from the five SHFM loci were analyzed in the
available family members by PCR, polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and silver
staining. For semi-quantitative determination of the allele copy number, the
polymorphic PCR-amplified fragments representing genetic markers from the SHFM3
locus at chromosome 10q24.3 were sequenced in the affected individuals using
normal individuals with identical genotypes as controls.
RESULTS: All 3 existing affected individuals showed absence of 3 radial fingers, 
2 affected individuals had a deep central cleft and central ray deficiency in the
feet, and 1 affected individual had a fibular monodactyli, all limb malformations
being bilateral and consistent with the phenotype of typical SHFM. G-banding
showed normal karyotypes in the 3 affected individuals and no visible cytogenetic
abnormality was found. Moreover, no mutation was identified in the TP63 gene.
While no haplotype sharing was observed in the markers from loci SHFM1, SHFM4 and
SHFM5, potential haplotype sharing was detected in the markers from two loci,
SHFM2 and SHFM3, indicating possible causative mutation at SHFM2 or SHFM3.
Furthermore, obviously biased silver density toward the allele fragments shared
by the 3 affected individuals was observed in the markers from the SHFM3 locus.
Comparative sequencing showed roughly one-fold increase of fluorescent signal of 
the shared fragments in the affected individuals. These results suggested a
large-scale DNA duplication within the SHFM3 locus.
CONCLUSION: A large-scale DNA duplication within the SHFM3 locus at chromosome
10q24.3 has been identified as the pathogenic genetic change in Chinese patients 
with SHFM.


PMID: 16681918  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1526. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2006 Jun 23;345(1):216-21. Epub 2006 Apr 27.

ETV4 and Myeov knockdown impairs colon cancer cell line proliferation and
invasion.

Moss AC(1), Lawlor G, Murray D, Tighe D, Madden SF, Mulligan AM, Keane CO, Brady 
HR, Doran PP, MacMathuna P.

Author information: 
(1)Conway Institute of Biomolecular and Biomedical Research, UCD, Ireland.
amoss@bidmc.harvard.edu

We have identified novel colorectal cancer-associated genes using NCBI's UNIGENE 
cDNA libraries. Colon cancer libraries were examined using Digital Differential
Display and disease-associated genes were selected. Among these were ETV4 and
MYEOV, novel colorectal cancer-associated genes. Samples of matched normal and
neoplastic colon were obtained from human subjects and gene expression was
quantified using real-time PCR. ETV4 gene expression was significantly increased 
in colonic neoplasia in comparison to matched normal colonic tissue (p<0.05).
Myeov expression was also increased in colon neoplasia in comparison to matched
normal tissue. The effect of siRNA-mediated knockdown of ETV4 and Myeov on cell
proliferation and invasion was assessed. ETV4 knockdown resulted in a 90%
decrease in cell proliferation (p<0.05) and a 67% decrease in cell invasion.
Myeov knockdown resulted in a 48% decrease in cell proliferation (p<0.05) and a
36% decrease in cell invasion. These data suggest that ETV4 and Myeov may provide
novel targets for therapeutic intervention.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2006.04.094 
PMID: 16678123  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1527. Cancer Biol Ther. 2006 Jun;5(6):630-4. Epub 2006 Jun 9.

Homozygous deletion of MKK4 in ovarian serous carcinoma.

Nakayama K(1), Nakayama N, Davidson B, Katabuchi H, Kurman RJ, Velculescu VE,
Shih IeM, Wang TL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore,
Maryland 21231, USA.

Analysis of deleted chromosomal regions in tumors has historically led to the
identification of tumor suppressor genes. In this study, we used digital
karyotyping, a genome-wide, high-resolution technology, to search for chromosomal
deletions in ovarian serous carcinoma, the most lethal gynecological malignancy
in women. Five purified ovarian serous carcinomas were analyzed by digital
karyotyping and small interstitial deletions at chromosome 17p were identified in
two tumor samples. Aligning these two deletions identified an overlapping region 
that spanned 2.4 Mb which harbored a candidate tumor suppressor gene,
mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase-4 (MKK4). Dual-color FISH analysis
confirmed homozygous deletion of the MKK4 locus in both samples and RT-PCR
demonstrated that both carcinomas lacked MKK4 transcript expression. Loss of
heterozygosity of 17p occurred in 24 (86%) of 28 high-grade serous carcinomas
including both cases with homozygous MKK4 deletion. Additionally, downregulation 
of MKK4 expression was found in 96 (75%) of 128 ovarian serous carcinomas as
compared to benign ovarian tissues. These findings suggest that homozygous
deletion or reduced expression of MKK4 may contribute to the development of
ovarian serous carcinoma.


PMID: 16627982  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1528. Br J Cancer. 2006 Apr 24;94(8):1204-12.

Net1 and Myeov: computationally identified mediators of gastric cancer.

Leyden J(1), Murray D, Moss A, Arumuguma M, Doyle E, McEntee G, O'Keane C, Doran 
P, MacMathuna P.

Author information: 
(1)Gastrointestinal Unit, Mater Misericordiae University Hospital, University
College Dublin, Ireland.

Gastric adenocarcinoma (GA) is a significant cause of mortality worldwide. The
molecular mechanisms of GA remain poorly characterised. Our aim was to
characterise the functional activity of the computationally identified genes, NET
1 and MYEOV in GA. Digital Differential Display was used to identify genes
altered expression in GA-derived EST libraries. mRNA levels of a subset of genes 
were quantitated by qPCR in a panel of cell lines and tumour tissue. The effect
of pro- and anti-inflammatory stimuli on gene expression was investigated. Cell
proliferation and invasion were measured using in an in-vitro GA model following 
inhibition of expression using siRNA. In all, 23 genes not previously reported in
association with GA were identified. Two genes, Net1 and Myeov, were selected for
further analysis and increased expression was detected in GA tissue compared to
paired normal tissue using quantitative PCR. siRNA-mediated downregulation of
Net1 and Myeov resulted in decreased proliferation and invasion of gastric cancer
cells in vitro. These functional studies highlight a putative role for NET1 and
Myeov in the development and progression of gastric cancer. These genes may
provide important targets for intervention in GA, evidenced by their role in
promoting invasion and proliferation, key phenotypic hallmarks of cancer cells.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6603054 
PMCID: PMC2361249
PMID: 16552434  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1529. Biol Neonate. 2006;89(4):265-73. Epub 2006 Feb 14.

Dietary insulin affects leucine aminopeptidase, growth hormone, insulin-like
growth factor I and insulin receptors in the intestinal mucosa of neonatal pigs.

Huo YJ(1), Wang T, Xu RJ, Macdonald S, Liu G, Shi F.

Author information: 
(1)College of Animal Science and Technology, Nanjing Agricultural University,
Nanjing, China.

BACKGROUND: Recent studies suggest that milk-borne insulin may regulate the
development of the gastrointestinal tract in neonatal mammals.
OBJECTIVES: To explore the mechanism by which milk-borne insulin affects
gastrointestinal tract development, we examined the effect of dietary insulin on 
the expression levels of leucine aminopeptidase (LAP) and insulin-like growth
factor I (IGF-I), as well as its effect on growth hormone (GH), IGF-I and insulin
receptors in the small intestinal mucosa of neonatal pigs.
METHODS: Five piglets were anesthetized and sampled within 2-4 h after birth.
They were not allowed to suckle and were used as newborn controls (group N). Ten 
other piglets from 5 litters were randomly divided into group M (n=5), which was 
fed cow's milk, and group MI (n=5), which was fed cow's milk and insulin (2.5
mg/l). Piglets in groups M and MI were artificially fed for 3 days and then
sampled. Total RNA in their intestinal mucosa was extracted with Tripure reagents
(Roche, USA). Reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR) was used to semi-quantify mRNA
levels of target genes and 18S rRNA was used in an RT-PCR system as an internal
control. PCR products were loaded onto a 9% nondenaturing polyacrylamide gel. The
gel was stained by silver staining agents. Digital photos were taken and the
strength of the band areas was quantified using software.
RESULTS: The results showed that the DNA contents and LAP activity in the small
intestines of the piglets in group MI were higher (p<0.05) than in the piglets in
group N. Compared with group M, piglets in group MI exhibited significantly
increased expression levels of both insulin and GH receptor in the ileum, and LAP
in the jejunum (p<0.05); IGF-I receptor expression levels in both the jejunum and
ileum were significantly decreased (p<0.01 and p<0.05, respectively), while IGF-I
expression was unchanged (p>0.05).
CONCLUSION: Collectively, dietary insulin increased mRNA levels of insulin and GH
receptor, which could help explain the effect of dietary insulin on
receptor-mediated postnatal development of the small intestine. Dietary insulin
suppressed IGF-I receptor expression, which may be the result of negative
feedback caused when insulin binds to IGF-I receptors.

Copyright (c) 2006 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000091482 
PMID: 16479091  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1530. J Reprod Med. 2005 Nov;50(11):827-31.

Expression of lysyl oxidase and transforming growth factor beta2 in women with
severe pelvic organ prolapse.

Kobak W(1), Lu J, Hardart A, Zhang C, Stanczyk FZ, Felix JC.

Author information: 
(1)Illinois Urogynecology, Oak Lawn, USA. william.kobak@advocatehealth.com

OBJECTIVE: To determine the mRNA expression of lysyl oxidase (LOX) and
transforming growth factor beta2 (TGF beta2) in subjects with advanced pelvic
organ prolapse as compared to asymptomatic controls.
STUDY DESIGN: Seventeen women undergoing vaginal hysterectomy were recruited for 
the study. Nine women with grade > or = 3 pelvic organ prolapse by the
Baden-Walker grading scale were recruited. Eight subjects without pelvic organ
prolapse or urinary incontinence undergoing hysterectomy for other indications
were recruited as asymptomatic controls. A 1-cm portion of the bilateral distal
uterosacral ligaments was excised and immediately frozen at -80 degrees C. Total 
RNA was extracted, quantified and subjected to reverse transcription for cDNA
synthesis. beta-Actin was used as the reference for the semiquantitative
analysis. Known volumes of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) products for each 
reaction were electrophoresed in agarose gels stained with ethidium bromide and
photographed with a digital camera. The optical density for each sample was
measured by using computerized image analysis software. The relative abundance of
each specific message was calculated as the ratio of PCR product for LOX or TGF
beta2 divided by the amount of PCR product for beta-actin from the same sample.
RESULTS: The mean age of the study subjects was 55.7 years (38-67) versus 47.1
for the controls (44-54). Mean parity was 4.4 for the study subjects and 2.7 for 
the controls. Seventy-eight percent of the study subjects were postmenopausal,
and 14% of the controls postmenopausal. All postmenopausal subjects had at least 
1 month of estrogen therapy prior to surgery. The mean LOX/beta-actin ratio for
the study group was 0.35 as compared to 0.72 for the control group. This was
statistically significant with a p value of 0.049. The mean TGF beta2/beta-actin 
ratio for the study group was 0.12 as compared to 0.20 for the control group.
This was not statistically significant (p = 0.46).
CONCLUSION: Patients with severe pelvic organ prolapse (grade > or = 3) have a
significant reduction in the mRNA expression of lysyl oxidase as compared to
asymptomatic controls. The mRNA expression of TGF beta2 was not statistically
different between the 2 groups. These findings lend further credence to the
concept of specific biochemical changes in the pelvic floor in women with pelvic 
organ prolapse.


PMID: 16419630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1531. Am J Clin Pathol. 2005 Dec;124(6):854-61.

Analysis of polyomavirus-infected renal transplant recipients' urine specimens:
correlation of routine urine cytology, fluorescence in situ hybridization, and
digital image analysis.

Kipp BR(1), Sebo TJ, Griffin MD, Ihrke JM, Halling KC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic and Foundation,
Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

Urinary polyomavirus subtype BK (BKV)-infected urothelial and renal tubular
cells, "decoy cells," have been shown to be aneuploid with digital image analysis
(DIA). We wanted to determine whether decoy cells cause false-positive
fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) results in BKV-infected urine samples. 
Urine samples from 38 renal transplant recipients were split 3 ways and evaluated
for number of decoy cells per 10 high-power fields by routine cytology, total
nuclear DNA content by DIA, and chromosomal abnormalities by FISH. For DIA,
Feulgen-stained cells were quantified with a CAS 200 image analyzer (Bacus
Laboratories, Lombard, IL), and for FISH, the UroVysion probe set (Vysis, Downers
Grove, IL) consisting of chromosome enumeration probes 3, 7, 17, and
locus-specific identifier probe 9p21 (p16 gene) was used. Of the 38 specimens, 32
(84.2%) had evidence of BKV infection by routine cytology. DIA and FISH results
were aneuploid/aneusomic in 30 (93.8%) and 4 (12.5%) cases, respectively. All
aneusomic FISH specimens occurred in men older than 52 years of age and who also 
had 4 of the 6 highest PCR-BKV titers. To date, no patient has clinical evidence 
of malignancy. The 6 specimens without decoy cells were DNA diploid/disomic by
DIA and FISH. Abnormal FISH results of urinary decoy cells occur much less
frequently than aneuploidy by DIA in renal transplant recipients and might merit 
close follow-up in some transplant recipients.


PMID: 16416734  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1532. Folia Microbiol (Praha). 2005;50(4):333-40.

Visualization of DNA-containing structures in various species of Chlorophyta,
Rhodophyta and Cyanophyta using SYBR Green I dye.

Vítová M(1), Hendrychová J, Cepák V, Zachleder V.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cell Cycles, Division of Autotrophic Microorganisms, Institute
of Microbiology, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, 379 81 Trebon,
Czechia.

We developed an alternative method of staining cell nuclei and chloroplast
nucleoids of algal cells using SYBR Green I (the fluorescent dye used commonly
for detecting dsDNA in agarose and polyacrylamide gels as an alternative to
highly mutagenic ethidium bromide and for DNA staining of viruses and bacteria
followed by flow cytometry, digital image analysis or real-time PCR), which
enabled routine staining in vivo. Cells do not need to be fixed or treated
chemically or physically before staining, thus the shape, size and position of
DNA-containing structures are not affected. The fluorescence signal is sharp and 
reproducible. Examples of application of the method are shown in color
microphotographs for representatives of eukaryotic algae from the taxa
Chlorophyta, Rhodophyta and the prokaryotic Cyanophyta. The method is also useful
for studying progress of the cell cycle in algal cells dividing by multiple
fission, as shown by observation of changes in nuclear number during the cell
cycle of the green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and Scenedesmus quadricauda.
Staining with SYBR Green I can be recommended as a fast, safe and efficient
method for the detection of DNA-containing structures in vivo.


PMID: 16408852  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1533. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2006 Aug;71(6):942-52. Epub 2006 Jan 5.

Bacterial diversity in a finished compost and vermicompost: differences revealed 
by cultivation-independent analyses of PCR-amplified 16S rRNA genes.

Fracchia L(1), Dohrmann AB, Martinotti MG, Tebbe CC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical, Food, Pharmaceutical and Pharmacological Sciences,
University of Eastern Piedmont, Via Bovio 6, 28100, Novara, Italy.

Bacterial communities are important catalysts in the production of composts.
Here, it was analysed whether the diversity of bacteria in finished composts is
stable and specific for the production process. Single-strand conformation
polymorphism (SSCP) based on polymerase chain reaction amplified partial 16S rRNA
genes was used to profile and analyse bacterial communities found in total DNA
extracted from finished composts. Different batches of compost samples stored
over a period of 12 years and a 1-year-old vermicompost were compared to each
other. According to digital image analysis, clear differences could be detected
between the profiles from compost and vermicompost. Differences between three
different periods of compost storage and between replicate vermicompost windrows 
were only minor. A total of 41 different 16S rRNA genes were identified from the 
SSCP profiles by DNA sequencing, with the vast majority related to
yet-uncultivated bacteria. Sequences retrieved from compost mainly belonged to
the phyla Actinobacteria and Firmicutes. In contrast, vermicompost was dominated 
by bacteria related to uncultured Chloroflexi, Acidobacteria, Bacteroidetes and
Gemmatimonadetes. The differences were underscored with specific gene probes and 
Southern blot hybridizations. The results confirmed that different substrates and
composting processes selected for specific bacterial communities in the finished 
products. The specificity and consistency of the bacterial communities inhabiting
the compost materials suggest that cultivation-independent bacterial community
analysis is a potentially useful indicator to characterize the quality of
finished composts in regard to production processes and effects of storage
conditions.

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-005-0228-y 
PMID: 16395545  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1534. Electrophoresis. 2006 Feb;27(2):387-93.

An inexpensive microslab gel DNA electrophoresis system with real-time
fluorescence detection.

Chen X(1), Ugaz VM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, Texas A&M University, College Station, TX 
77843-3122, USA.

In this paper, we describe the construction of a simple yet powerful gel
electrophoresis apparatus that can be used to perform size-selective separations 
of DNA fragments in virtually any laboratory. This system employs a microslab gel
format with a novel gel casting technique that eliminates the need for delicate
combs to define sample loading wells. The compact size of the microslab gel
format allows rapid separations to be performed at low voltages using
submicroliter sample volumes. Real time fluorescence detection of the migrating
DNA fragments is accomplished using an inexpensive digital microscope that
directly connects to any PC with a USB interface. The microscope is readily
adaptable for this application by replacing its white light source with a blue
light-emitting diode (LED) and adding an appropriate emission filter. Both
polyacrylamide and agarose gels can be used as separation matrices. Separation
performance was characterized using standard dsDNA ladders, and correct sizing of
a 191 bp PCR product was achieved in 15 min. The low cost and simplicity of this 
system makes it ideally suited for use in a variety of laboratory and educational
settings.

DOI: 10.1002/elps.200500572 
PMID: 16342324  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1535. Planta. 2006 May;223(6):1315-28. Epub 2005 Dec 7.

Nocturnal changes in leaf growth of Populus deltoides are controlled by
cytoplasmic growth.

Matsubara S(1), Hurry V, Druart N, Benedict C, Janzik I, Chavarría-Krauser A,
Walter A, Schurr U.

Author information: 
(1)Institut for Chemistry and Dynamics of the Geosphere: Phytosphere (ICG-III),
Research Centre Jülich, 52425 Jülich, Germany. s.matsubara@fz-juelich.de

Growing leaves do not expand at a constant rate but exhibit pronounced diel
growth rhythms. However, the mechanisms giving rise to distinct diel growth
dynamics in different species are still largely unknown. As a first step towards 
identifying genes controlling rate and timing of leaf growth, we analysed the
transcriptomes of rapidly expanding and fully expanded leaves of Populus
deltoides Bartr. ex. Marsh at points of high and low expansion at night. Tissues 
with well defined temporal growth rates were harvested using an online
growth-monitoring system based on a digital image sequence processing method
developed for quantitative mapping of dicot leaf growth. Unlike plants studied
previously, leaf growth in P. deltoides was characterised by lack of a base-tip
gradient across the lamina, and by maximal and minimal growth at dusk and dawn,
respectively. Microarray analysis revealed that the nocturnal decline in growth
coincided with a concerted down-regulation of ribosomal protein genes, indicating
deceleration of cytoplasmic growth. In a subsequent time-course experiment,
Northern blotting and real-time RT-PCR confirmed that the ribosomal protein gene 
RPL12 and a cell-cycle gene H2B were down-regulated after midnight following a
decrease in cellular carbohydrate concentrations. Thus, we propose that the
spatio-temporal growth pattern in leaves of P. deltoides primarily arises from
cytoplasmic growth whose activity increases from afternoon to midnight and
thereafter decreases in this species.

DOI: 10.1007/s00425-005-0181-0 
PMID: 16333638  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1536. Electrophoresis. 2005 Nov;26(22):4277-86.

Analysis of electrophoretic patterns of arbitrarily primed PCR profiling.

Trifunović D(1), Radović M, Ristić Z, Guzvić M, Dimitrijević B.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Radiobiology and Molecular Genetics, Institute of Nuclear
Sciences, Vinca, Belgrade, Serbia and Montenegro.

We present a mathematical algorithm for the analysis of electrophoretic patterns 
resulting from arbitrarily primed PCR profiling. The algorithm is based on the
established mathematical procedures applied to the analysis of digital images of 
gel patterns. The algorithm includes (a) transformation of the image into a
matrix form, (b) identification of every electrophoretic lane as a set of matrix 
columns that are further mathematically processed, (c) averaging of matrix
columns corresponding to electrophoretic lanes that define lane representatives, 
(d) elimination of "smiling" bands, (e) solving the problem of a lane offset, and
(f) removal of the background. Representation of individual electrophoretic lanes
in the form of functions allows interlane comparisons and further mathematical
analysis. Direct comparison of selected lanes was obtained by employing
correlation analysis. Gel images were those obtained after arbitrarily primed PCR
analysis of DNA that underwent damage induced by gamma radiation from a (60)Co
source. The applied method proved to be useful for elimination of subjectivity of
visual inspection. It offers the possibility to avoid overlooking important
differences in case of suboptimal electrophoretic resolution. In addition, higher
precision is achieved in the assessment of quantitative differences due to better
insight into experimental artifacts. These simple mathematical methods offer an
open-type algorithm, i.e., this algorithm enables easy implementation of
different parameters that may be useful for other analytical needs.

DOI: 10.1002/elps.200500381 
PMID: 16287184  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1537. Vet Microbiol. 2005 Dec 20;111(3-4):199-209. Epub 2005 Nov 8.

The occurrence of treponemes in contagious ovine digital dermatitis and the
characterisation of associated Dichelobacter nodosus.

Moore LJ(1), Woodward MJ, Grogono-Thomas R.

Author information: 
(1)School of Clinical Veterinary Science, University of Bristol, Langford House, 
Langford BS40 5DU, UK. L.J.Moore@bristol.ac.uk

Contagious ovine digital dermatitis (CODD) is a recently recorded, apparently new
infection of the ovine hoof, which differs clinically from footrot caused by
Dichelobacter nodosus and which fails to respond well to accepted treatment
practices for footrot. Despite the welfare implications of such an infection,
very little research has been performed on CODD to date and the aetiology remains
confused. Suggestions have been made that there is a potential role for
treponemes in the pathogenesis of CODD but that D. nodosus is apparently not
involved. Six farms were therefore targeted in this study to provide a more
in-depth investigation into the bacterial flora of CODD lesions. Dark ground
microscopy, culture and PCR techniques were used, concentrating on the presence
of D. nodosus and spirochaetes, particularly those of the genus Treponema. The
results demonstrated that isolates of D. nodosus were indeed present in a high
percentage (74%) of CODD lesions compared with 31% of apparently healthy feet.
The isolates were shown to be of similar virulence type to those reported
previously in cases of footrot, and the range of serogroups was also found to be 
similar to footrot, with serogroup H being prevalent. Treponemes were present in 
70% of CODD lesions and 38% of apparently healthy feet, supporting a possible
association between CODD and treponemes. However, any further progress on the
aetiology of CODD and the potential for novel, effective treatment will depend on
an improved ability to culture these organisms routinely in the laboratory
thereby enabling their complete characterisation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2005.10.016 
PMID: 16280206  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1538. Nihon Rinsho. 2005 Nov;63(11):1945-9.

[HLA typing and transplantation].

[Article in Japanese]

Onizuka M(1), Yoshikawa E, Inoko H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Life Science, Tokai University School of Medicine.

Clinical trial of organ transplantation was renal transplantation by Voronoy at
1936. The discovery of HLA in the 1950s was one of the most important new
findings in the area of transplantation. Nowadays, developing HLA genotyping
methods, the serum analysis does not use for donor and recipient HLA typing but
for cross-matching test. Because each of HLA genotyping methods has its merits
and demerits, it is important to choice right methods for avoiding type error.
PCR-Luminex method using fluorescence microsphere was developed for
high-resolution HLA-A, HLA-B and HLA-DRB1 genotyping in the Japanese population. 
This genotyping method allows to define all the possible combinations of alleles 
at each loci existing in Japanese at the four-digital level. In hematopoietic
stem cell transplantation, to match high resolution level of HLA between donor
and recipient lead an improvement of recipient's survival. In organ
transplantation, removed organ has to be so immediately transplanted into
recipient that no time is left for HLA genotyping. In order to have good survival
of transplanted organ, HLA, cytokine promoter lesion and immunoglobulin like
receptor genotyping might be helpful. We focused on this review at HLA
genotyping, especially new SSO methods.


PMID: 16277257  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1539. J Vet Med Sci. 2005 Oct;67(10):985-91.

Differences in tumor necrosis factor (TNF)alpha and TNF receptor-1-mediated
intracellular signaling factors in normal, inflamed and scar-formed horse
tendons.

Hosaka Y(1), Kirisawa R, Ueda H, Yamaguchi M, Takehana K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Anatomy, School of Veterinary Medicine, Rakuno Gakuen
University, Ebetsu, Japan.

Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptors (TNF-R)-mediated cell survival or apoptosis
has been demonstrated in many cells, but little is known about survival or
apoptotic signals via TNF-R1 in tendinocytes. In this study, we focused on four
signaling factors, TNFalpha, TNF-R1, TNFR-associated factor2 (TRAF2) and
caspase-3, in order to elucidate the signaling events in tendinocytes. Samples
were obtained from normal, inflamed and scar-formed equine superficial digital
flexor tendons. To detect these signaling factors, samples were subjected to
immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis, and some samples were also
subjected to reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR),
PCR-Southern blot analysis and in situ hybridization to detect the expression of 
TNFalpha mRNA. Distribution of the four factors differed depending on the tendon 
condition, normal, inflamed or scar-formed. In the normal tendon, large amounts
of TRAF2 were found in tendinocytes, but the amounts of TNF-R1 were small.
TNFalpha mRNA was expressed most highly in the inflamed tendon. TNF-R1, which was
only faintly detected in the normal tendon, was detected at a high level in the
inflamed tendon, and the amounts of TRAF2 and caspase-3 also increased. Activated
caspase-3 was only detected in the inflamed tendon. TNFalpha mRNA was also
expressed in the scar-formed tendon, though it showed weak signals, and the
expression levels of TNF-R1, TRAF2 and caspase-3 proteins were very low. Two
distinct intracellular signaling pathways of TNFalpha, which lead to cell
survival and apoptosis, might be present in tendinocytes mediated through TNF-R1.
These results, which reflect the dynamism of TNFalpha, provide important clues
for means to prevent tendinopathy.


PMID: 16276053  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1540. Methods Mol Biol. 2006;317:179-92.

Saturation screening for p53 target genes by digital fluorescent differential
display.

Cho YJ(1), Stein S, Jackson RS Jr, Liang P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center, Vanderbilt
University School of Medicine, Nashville, TN, USA.

Differential display (DD) is one of the most commonly used approaches for
identifying differentially expressed genes. Despite the great impact of the
method on biomedical research, there has been a lack of automation of DD
technology to increase its throughput and accuracy for a systematic gene
expression analysis. Most of previous DD work has taken a "shotgun" approach of
identifying one gene at a time, with limited polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
reactions set up manually, giving DD a low-technology and low-throughput image.
With our newly created DD mathematical model, which has been validated by
computer simulations, global analysis of gene expression by DD technology is no
longer a shot in the dark. After identifying the "rate-limiting" factors that
contribute to the "noise" level of DD method, we have optimized the DD process
with a new platform that incorporates fluorescent digital readout and automated
liquid handling. The resulting streamlined fluorescent DD (FDD) technology offers
an unprecedented accuracy, sensitivity, and throughput in comprehensive and
quantitative analysis of gene expression. We are using this newly integrated FDD 
technology to conduct a systematic and comprehensive screening for p53
tumor-suppressor gene targets.


PMID: 16264229  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1541. Methods Mol Biol. 2006;317:23-57.

Automation of fluorescent differential display with digital readout.

Meade JD(1), Cho YJ, Fisher JS, Walden JC, Guo Z, Liang P.

Author information: 
(1)GenHunter Corporation, Nashville, TN, USA.

Since its invention in 1992, differential display (DD) has become the most
commonly used technique for identifying differentially expressed genes because of
its many advantages over competing technologies such as DNA microarray, serial
analysis of gene expression (SAGE), and subtractive hybridization. Despite the
great impact of the method on biomedical research, there has been a lack of
automation of DD technology to increase its throughput and accuracy for
systematic gene expression analysis. Most of previous DD work has taken a
"shot-gun" approach of identifying one gene at a time, with a limited number of
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) reactions set up manually, giving DD a low-tech
and low-throughput image. We have optimized the DD process with a new platform
that incorporates fluorescent digital readout, automated liquid handling, and
large-format gels capable of running entire 96-well plates. The resulting
streamlined fluorescent DD (FDD) technology offers an unprecedented accuracy,
sensitivity, and throughput in comprehensive and quantitative analysis of gene
expression. These major improvements will allow researchers to find
differentially expressed genes of interest, both known and novel, quickly and
easily.

DOI: 10.1385/1-59259-968-0:023 
PMID: 16264220  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1542. Zhonghua Shi Yan He Lin Chuang Bing Du Xue Za Zhi. 2005 Sep;19(3):236-9.

[Establishment of a new low-density cDNA macroarray and the application in the
activity of IFN against HBV].

[Article in Chinese]

Guan SH(1), Liu HP, Yang DL, Lu MJ, Roggendorf M, Schlaak J.

Author information: 
(1)The First Affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical University, Hefei 230022,
China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the expression profile of genes which are involved in
IFN antiviral activity and IFN signal transduction pathway in Hep G2 and
HepG2.2.15 cells.
METHODS: Genes of interest were selected from the UniGene database
(http://www.ncbi.nlm.gov/UniGene/Hs.Home.html). The 5'IMAGE clones with 0.5-0.8
kb length were chosen and ordered from RZPD company. The cDNA inserts were
amplified by PCR and then were spotted onto the Hybond-N+ membranes. The
membranes were denatured and neutralized for Macroarray analysis. HepG2.2.15 and 
Hep G2 cells were treated without or with IFN-alpha for 6 h, and the total
cellular RNA was isolated using Trizol Reagent. Radio-labelled cDNA was generated
from 20 microgram of RNA by reverse transcription using 360 units of reverse
transcriptase in the presence of 30 microCi of alpha-32P dCTP. Hybridization was 
performed between 32P-labelled cDNA and membrane arrays. The membranes were then 
scanned, and the intensity of autoradiographic spots was quantitated by Cyclone
Storage Phosphor System. The images were subsequently analysed by the OptiQuant
Imager Analysis Software and converted into digital data.
RESULTS: The authors found that just partially IFN-inducible genes were expressed
in Hep G2 and HepG2.2.15 cells, and the majority of IFN-inducible genes was lowly
responsive or non-responsive to IFN-a treatment. Some interferon-stimulated genes
(ISGs) were inhibited or blocked, especially in HepG2.2.15 cells. Interestingly, 
the authors found that the IFN signal transduction pathway (Jak-STAT) was intact 
and unimpaired in HepG2.2.15 cells.
CONCLUSION: Differential gene expression profiles in response to IFN were found
between Hep G2 and HepG2.2.15 cells.


PMID: 16261205  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1543. J Biol Chem. 2005 Dec 23;280(51):42307-14. Epub 2005 Oct 14.

Directed evolution of a ring-cleaving dioxygenase for polychlorinated biphenyl
degradation.

Fortin PD(1), MacPherson I, Neau DB, Bolin JT, Eltis LD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Biochemistry, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 1Z3, Canada.

DoxG, an extradiol dioxygenase involved in the aerobic catabolism of naphthalene,
possesses a weak ability to cleave 3,4-dihydroxybiphenyls (3,4-DHB), critical
polychlorinated biphenyl metabolites. A directed evolution strategy combining
error-prone PCR, saturation mutagenesis, and DNA shuffling was used to improve
the polychlorinated biphenyl-degrading potential of DoxG. Screening was
facilitated through analysis of filtered, digital imaging of plated colonies. A
simple scheme, which is readily adaptable to other activities, enabled the
screening of >10(5) colonies/h. The best variant, designated DoxGSMA2, cleaved
3,4-DHB with an apparent specificity constant of 2.0 +/- 0.3 x 10(6) m(-1) s(-1),
which is 770 times that of wild-type (WT) DoxG. The specificities of DoxGSMA2 for
1,2-DHN and 2,3-DHB were increased by 6.7-fold and reduced by 2-fold,
respectively, compared with the WT enzyme. DoxGSMA2 contained three substituted
residues with respect to the WT enzyme: L190M, S191W, and L242S. Structural data 
indicate that the side chains of residues 190 and 242 occur on opposite walls of 
the substrate binding pocket and may interact directly with the distal ring of
3,4-DHB or influence contacts between this substrate and other residues. Thus,
the introduction of two bulkier residues on one side of the substrate binding
pocket and a smaller residue on the other may reshape the binding pocket and
alter the catalytically relevant interactions of 3,4-DHB with the enzyme and
dioxygen. Kinetic analyses reveal that the substitutions are anti-cooperative.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M510456200 
PMID: 16227200  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1544. Arch Ital Urol Androl. 2005 Jun;77(2):87-92.

Echoguided drug infiltration in chronic prostatitis: results of a multi-centre
study.

Guercini F(1), Pajoncini C, Bard R, Fiorentino F, Bini V, Costantini E, Porena M.

Author information: 
(1)Urologic Department, Perugia University, Italy. ME3403@mclink.it

OBJECTIVES: In chronic prostatitis there are many causes that may provoke a
therapeutical failure of a systemic antibiotic treatment. At the moment a
consensus has not been reached on the efficacy of the many therapeutical options 
that are available with not one of these approaches being efficacious in all
patients. In our view the main causes of treatment failure are the well-known
hurdle to antibiotic diffusion inside the glandular parenchyma associated with
the so-called intraprostatic bacterial biofilms and the possible presence of
local auto-immune reactions. Given this background, we tested ultrasound guided
intraprostate infiltration of a cocktail of antibiotics and betamethasone, for a 
therapeutical options.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: 320 patients, referred to us because of symptoms indicative
of chronic prostatitis, were enrolled in this study. The inclusion criteria were 
the severity of the symptoms and the failure of repeated cycles of antibiotics in
the previous 12 months. At the initial consultation patients completed the NIH
Prostatitis Symptoms Index (NIH-CPSI). All underwent: a) digital rectal
examination (DRE), b) transrectal prostatic ultrasound scan (TRUS), c)
uroflowmetry, d) cultures of first voiding and after prostatic massage urine and 
cultures of sperm for saprophytic and pathogen germs, yeasts and protozoa, e) DNA
amplification with polymerase chain reaction (PCR) on urine and sperm, for
Chlamydia trachomatis, Mycoplasmas (Ureaplasma urealyticum and Mycoplasma
hominis), Gonococcus, HPV and HCV Patients on the basis of laboratory results
received a cocktail of antibiotics associated with betamethasone. The cocktail
was administered as prostate infiltration. Administration was repeated after 7
and 14 days. Final assessment of the efficacy of therapy included not only the
NIH-CPSI scores but also the patient's subjective judgement expressed as a
"percentage overall improvement". The percentage judgements were arbitrarily
divided into 4 classes: 0-30% no improvement (Class I); 30-50% satisfactory
improvement (Class II); 50-80% good improvement (Class III; 80-100% cured (Class 
IV).
RESULTS: Statistical analysis of the results showed 68% of patients were included
in the Class IV and 13% were no responders (Class I).
CONCLUSIONS: In our opinion this is one of the more valid therapeutical
approaches to chronic bacterial or abacterial prostatitis also if it requires
more studies.


PMID: 16146268  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1545. Biomed Microdevices. 2005 Sep;7(3):253-7.

Micro flow-through PCR in a PMMA chip fabricated by KrF excimer laser.

Yao L(1), Liu B, Chen T, Liu S, Zuo T.

Author information: 
(1)Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing, China. lyyao@emails.bjut.edu.cn

As the third PCR technology, micro flow-through PCR chip can amplify DNA
specifically in an exponential fashion in vitro. Nowadays many academies in the
world have successfully amplified DNA using their own-made flow-through PCR chip.
In this paper, the ablation principle of PMMA at 248 nm excimer laser was
studied, then a PMMA based flow-through PCR chip with 20 cycles was fabricated by
excimer laser at 19 kv and 18 mm/min. The chip was bonded together with another
cover chip at 105( composite function)C, 160 N and 20 minutes. In the end, it was
integrated with electrical thermal thin films and Pt 100 temperature sensors. The
temperature controllers was built standard PID digital temperature controller,
the temperature control precision was +/- 0.2( composite function)C. The
temperature grads between the three temperature zones were 16.5 and 22.2(
composite function)C respectively, the gaps between the temperature zones could
realize heat insulation.

DOI: 10.1007/s10544-005-3999-0 
PMID: 16133814  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1546. Yi Chuan. 2002 May;24(3):242-6.

[Studies of DNA polymorphism at D7S21 locus in Hebei Han population].

[Article in Chinese]

Cong B(1), Chai YC, Guo XQ, Peng YC, Yao YX, Wang JX, You HY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of molecular biology, Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang,
050017, China. congbin@263.net

To study the polymorphism at D7S21 locus in Hebei Han population, 124 unrelated
individuals were detected rapidly by Minisatellite Variant Repeat-Polymerase
Chain Reaction (MVR-PCR) and polyacrylamide gradient gel electrophoresis followed
by silver staining,and digital codes were obtained. About 36 digital codes were
obtained from each individual. No two unrelated individuals shared the same
codes. The probability of identity in 36 digital codes was 3.48 x 10(-18). The
percentage of three repeat units, a-type, t-type and 0-type was 48.5%, 49.4% and 
2.1% respectively. The heterozygosity (H), excluding probability of paternity
(EPP)and polymorphism information content (PIC) were 0.9876, 0.9746 and 0.9872
respectively. The results suggested that D7S21 locus has highly polymorphism in
Hebei Han population. The method-polyacrylamide gradient gel electrophoresis
followed by silver staining was simple,rapid and practical.


PMID: 16126672 


1547. J Exp Clin Cancer Res. 2005 Jun;24(2):279-87.

Differential stromal and epithelial localization of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2)
during colorectal tumorigenesis.

Arnoletti JP(1), Upson J, Babb JS, Bellacosa A, Watson JC.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Surgery, Section of Surgical Oncology, The University of Alabama at
Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA.

The purpose of the following study is to describe the localization of COX-2
protein and COX-2 mRNA during human colorectal tumorigenesis and to identify
potential cellular targets for COX-2 inhibition in chemopreventive strategies.
Immunohistochemistry with digital image analysis was used to determine COX-2
protein expression in histologic sections containing synchronous normal
colorectal mucosa, adenomas and carcinomas, from 17 previously untreated
patients. Epithelial and stromal COX-2 mRNA expression was analyzed by reverse
transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), on laser-capture microdissected
samples from the same histologies. The stromal compartment in normal colorectal
mucosa and adenomas showed higher levels of COX-2 protein expression compared to 
colorectal carcinomas (p < .0001). Conversely, epithelial COX-2 protein was
significantly increased only after development of the invasive phenotype (p <
.0001). RT-PCR demonstrated higher stromal COX-2 mRNA expression compared to that
within the epithelium for colorectal adenomas and carcinomas. In conclusion,
stromal COX-2 may be the target for chemopreventive agents in the early stages of
colorectal carcinogenesis.


PMID: 16110762  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1548. Eur J Heart Fail. 2005 Aug;7(5):755-62.

Myocardial osteopontin expression is associated with collagen fibrillogenesis in 
human dilated cardiomyopathy.

Satoh M(1), Nakamura M, Akatsu T, Shimoda Y, Segawa I, Hiramori K.

Author information: 
(1)Second Department of Internal Medicine, Iwate Medical University School of
Medicine, 19-1 Uchimaru, Morioka 020-8505, Iwate, Japan. m_satoh@imu.ncvc.go.jp

BACKGROUND: Osteopontin (OPN), an extracellular matrix (ECM) protein, plays an
important role in myocardial remodeling by promoting collagen synthesis and
accumulation in experimental animal models.
AIMS: We hypothesized that OPN could be expressed in myocardial tissues and
contribute to collagen accumulation and myocardial dysfunction in human dilated
cardiomyopathy (DCM).
METHODS AND RESULTS: Endomyocardial biopsy tissues were obtained from 51 patients
with DCM and 15 controls by right ventricular endomyocardial biopsy. OPN,
collagen types I (Col I) and III (Col III) mRNA levels were measured by real-time
reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The cellular source of 
OPN was analyzed using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. Myocardial
collagen volume fraction (CVF) was determined by digital planimetry. OPN, Col I
and Col III mRNA levels were higher in DCM patients than in controls (P<0.01).
OPN mRNA levels were positively correlated with Col I levels and CVF in DCM
patients (OPN vs. Col I: r=0.60, P<0.01; OPN vs. CVF: r=0.52, P<0.001).
Immunostaining of OPN was present in cardiomyocytes from DCM patients. In situ
hybridization identified cardiomyocytes as the major source of OPN mRNA
transcription in DCM patients. OPN and Col I mRNA levels were highly expressed in
the DCM subgroup with large left ventricular (LV) end-systolic diameter (LVESD > 
or = 54.5 mm) or low LV ejection fraction (LVEF < 29.5%). There was a weak
positive correlation between OPN mRNA levels and LV end-systolic diameter
(r=0.39, P<0.01). Levels of OPN mRNA were also negatively correlated with LV
ejection fraction (r=-0.43, P<0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that OPN may play a pivotal role in the
development of Col-I-induced cardiac fibrosis and dysfunction in human DCM.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejheart.2004.10.019 
PMID: 16087132  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1549. Vis Neurosci. 2005 May-Jun;22(3):371-7.

Inducible nitric oxide synthase subserves cholinergic vasodilation in retina.

Berra A(1), Ganzinelli S, Saravia M, Borda E, Sterin-Borda L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, School of Medicine, University of Buenos Aires,
Argentina.

In this paper, we investigate the role of muscarinic acetylcholine receptor
(mAChR) activity in the regulation of inducible (i) nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) 
expression and activity. The signaling pathway involved is also examined. These
experiments also provide a link between mAChR activation and the nitric oxide
(NO)-dependent regulation of retinal vascular diameter. The diameter of the
retinal vessels at a distance of 1 disc diameter from the center of the optic
disc was measured in rats using digital retinal photography, and both iNOS-mRNA
gene expression and NOS were specifically measured using RT-PCR and [U-(14)C]
citrulline assays, respectively. Stimulation of M(1) and M(3) mAChR with
carbachol caused an increase in vessel diameter, in iNOS-mRNA levels and in NOS
activity in the retina. Aminoguanidine, an inhibitor of iNOS, attenuated all
these effects. Inhibitors of phospholipase C (PLC) and protein kinase C (PKC) but
not calcium/calmodulin (CaM) prevented the muscarinic-dependent increase in
iNOS-mRNA levels. The results obtained suggest that the activation of mAChR
increases retinal vessel diameters by increasing the production of nitric oxide
(NO) through iNOS activation and iNOS-mRNA gene expression. The mechanism appears
to occur secondarily to stimulation of PLC and PKC enzymatic activity.

DOI: 10.1017/S0952523805223118 
PMID: 16079011  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1550. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2005 Aug 1;62(5):1363-70.

Association of statin use with a pathologic complete response to neoadjuvant
chemoradiation for rectal cancer.

Katz MS(1), Minsky BD, Saltz LB, Riedel E, Chessin DB, Guillem JG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New 
York, NY 10021, USA.

PURPOSE: To assess whether 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase
inhibitors, or statins, might enhance the efficacy of neoadjuvant chemoradiation 
in rectal cancer.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Between 1996 and 2001, 358 patients with clinically
resectable, nonmetastatic rectal cancer underwent surgery at Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center after neoadjuvant chemoradiation for either locally
advanced tumors or low-lying tumors that would require abdominoperineal
resection. We excluded 9 patients for radiation therapy dose <45 Gy or if statin 
use was unknown, leaving 349 evaluable patients. Median radiation therapy dose
was 50.4 Gy (range, 45-55.8 Gy), and 308 patients (88%) received
5-fluorouracil-based chemotherapy. Medication use, comorbid illnesses, clinical
stage as assessed by digital rectal examination and ultrasound, and type of
chemotherapy were analyzed for associations with pathologic complete response
(pCR), defined as no microscopic evidence of tumor. Fisher's exact test was used 
for categoric variables, Mantel-Haenszel test for ordered categoric variables,
and logistic regression for multivariate analysis.
RESULTS: Thirty-three patients (9%) used a statin, with no differences in
clinical stage according to digital rectal examination or ultrasound compared
with the other 324 patients. At the time of surgery, 23 nonstatin patients (7%)
were found to have metastatic disease, compared with 0% for statin patients. The 
unadjusted pCR rates with and without statin use were 30% and 17%, respectively
(p = 0.10). Variables significant univariately at the p = 0.15 level were entered
into a multivariate model, as were nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs),
which were strongly associated with statin use. The odds ratio for statin use on 
pCR was 4.2 (95% confidence interval, 1.7-12.1; p = 0.003) after adjusting for
NSAID use, clinical stage, and type of chemotherapy.
CONCLUSION: In multivariate analysis, statin use is associated with an improved
pCR rate after neoadjuvant chemoradiation for rectal cancer. The low prevalence
of statin use limits the power to detect a significant difference at a type I
error threshold of p = 0.05 in this analysis. Although no definitive conclusions 
can be drawn on the basis of this retrospective study, the unusually high
incidence of pCR after chemoradiation suggests that the use of statins in the
treatment of rectal cancer warrants further evaluation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2004.12.033 
PMID: 16029794  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1551. Yi Chuan Xue Bao. 2005 Apr;32(4):337-45.

Molecular cloning and primary functional analysis of a novel human
testis-specific gene.

Nie DS(1), Zhu WB, Xiang Y, Wang J, Tan XJ, Deng Y, Lu GX.

Author information: 
(1)Human Reproductive and Stem Cell Engineering Institute, Central South
University, Changsha 410078, China. nds200346@hotmail.com

In this study, a new data mining tool called Digital Differential Display (DDD)
from the NCBI was used to predict testis-specific expressed genes from the
expressed sequence tag (EST) database. DDD (digital differential display) was
performed between nine testis libraries and seventy libraries derived from other 
tissues. We identified a new contig of ESTs (HS. 326528) which was from testis
libraries. To validate the use of bioinformatic approaches in gene discovery, the
ESTs (HS. 326528), which were predicted to be testis-specific, were chosen for
further study. Reverse Transcriptase-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) analysis 
of matched sets of cDNAs from testis and other tissues indicated that the ESTs
were specifically expressed in testis. This result was further validated by
multi-tissue Northern blot. The full-length cDNA encompassing the entire open
reading frame was cloned and, in view of its apparent specificity to testis, the 
gene was termed homo sapiens spermatogenesis-related gene 8---SRG8 (GenBank
accession number: AY489187). The gene whose full cDNA length is 1 044 bp
containing 3 exons and 2 introns is located in human chromosome 15q26.2, the cDNA
encodes a novel protein of 105 amino acides with a theoretical molecular weight
of 11.7 kD and isoelectric point of 10.09 which shares no significant homology
with any known proteins in database. Real time PCR analysis of testis of
different developmental periods revealed that SRG8 gene is significantly
expressed in adult testis. The green fluorescent protein produced by
pEGFP-C3/SRG8 was detected in the nucleus of HeLa cells after 24 h
post-transfection. Cell cycle analysis showed that SRG8 can accelerate HeLa cells
to traverse the S-phase and enter the G2-phase compared with the control without 
transfection of SRG8, which suggested that this gene plays an important role in
the development of testis. The discovery of SRG8 showed that DDD combined with
experiments is a feasible, time-saving strategy to identify new candidate genes
for testis-specific development


PMID: 16011023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1552. J Biol Chem. 2005 Jul 1;280(26):24371-9. Epub 2005 Apr 29.

Differential roles for Sox15 and Sox2 in transcriptional control in mouse
embryonic stem cells.

Maruyama M(1), Ichisaka T, Nakagawa M, Yamanaka S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Stem Cell Biology, Institute for Frontier Medical Sciences,
Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8507, Japan.

Sox family transcription factors play essential roles in cell differentiation,
development, and sex determination. Sox2 was previously thought to be the sole
Sox protein expressed in mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells. Sox2 associates with
Oct3/4 to maintain self-renewal of ES cells. In the current study, digital
differential display identified transcripts for an additional Sox family member, 
Sox15, enriched in mouse ES cells. Reverse transcription-PCR confirmed that Sox15
expression is highest in undifferentiated ES cells and repressed upon
differentiation. Sox15 is expressed at low levels in several tissues, including
testis and muscle. In vitro studies showed that Sox15, like Sox2, associated with
Oct3/4 on DNA sequences containing the octamer motif and Sox-binding site. Gel
mobility shift assays and SELEX analyses showed that Sox15 binds similar DNA
sequences as Sox2 but with weaker affinity. In contrast to the early embryonic
lethality observed in Sox2-null mice, Sox15-null ES cells and mice were grossly
normal. DNA microarray analyses revealed that Otx2, Ctgf, Ebaf, and Hrc are
dysregulated in Sox15-null ES cells, however. Chromatin immunoprecipitation
showed that Sox15, but not Sox2, bound to a Sox consensus binding site within the
Hrc gene. Taken together, these data demonstrate differential roles for Sox15 and
Sox2 in transcriptional control in mouse ES cells.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M501423200 
PMID: 15863505  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1553. Zhonghua Er Ke Za Zhi. 2005 Feb;43(2):118-23.

[Protective effects of amygdalin on hyperoxia-exposed type II alveolar epithelial
cells isolated from premature rat lungs in vitro].

[Article in Chinese]

Chang LW(1), Zhu HP, Li WB, Liu HC, Zhang QS, Chen HB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430030, China.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the effect of hyperoxia on the proliferation and surfactant
associated protein messenger RNA levels of type II alveolar epithelial cells
(AECIIs) of premature rat, and to investigate the effect of amygdalin on the
change resulted from hyperoxia in AECIIs isolated from premature rat lung in
vitro.
METHODS: The lung tissue of 20-day fetal rat was digested by trypsin and
collagenase. AECIIs and lung fibroblasts (LFs) were isolated and purified at
different centrifugal force and different adherence, then cultured. The nature of
the cultures was identified by cytokeratin staining, vimentin staining and
transmission electron micrography. For establishing hyperoxia-exposed cell model,
purified AECIIs were cultured for 24 hours after culture flasks were filled with 
95% oxygen-5% CO2 at 3 L/min for 10 min, and then sealed. Oxygen concentrations
were tested in CYS-1 digital oxygen monitor after 24 hours of exposure. A sample 
was discarded if its oxygen concentration was < 90%. Cell proliferating vitality 
was examined by MTT assay after treatment with amygdalin at various
concentrations. DNA content, protein expression of proliferating cell nuclear
antigen (PCNA) and mRNA levels of SPs of AECIIs were analyzed with flow
cytometric assay, Western blot and reverse transcription polymerase chain
reaction (RT-PCR) respectively after 24 hours of air or hyperoxia exposure in the
presence or absence of 200 micromol/L amygdalin.
RESULTS: Excellent yields of highly purified, culturable AECIIs could be obtained
from 20-day fetal lungs. The expression of cytokeratin in AECIIs was positive and
that of vimentin negative by immunocytochemistry. Those, however, in LFs were
just opposite. Lamellar bodies in purified AECIIs were revealed by transmission
electron micrography. The established hyperoxia-exposed cell model assured the
oxygen concentrations of culture flasks more than 90%. Amygdalin at the
concentration range from 50 micromol/L to 200 micromol/L stimulated the
proliferation of AECIIs in a dose-dependent manner; however, at the concentration
of 400 micromol/L inhibited the proliferation of AECII. Flow cytometric analysis 
showed that the apoptosis rate and G0/G1 phase percentage increased significantly
(P < 0.01), S phase and G2/M phase percentage decreased significantly (P < 0.01),
in hyperoxia group compared with that of air group. The apoptosis rate of air
plus 200 micromol/L amygdalin group, compared with air group, was not
significantly different (P > 0.05); however, G0/G1 phase percentage decreased
markedly, S phase percentage increased significantly, G2/M phase percentage did
not significantly change (P > 0.05). The apoptosis rate of hyperoxia plus 200
micromol/L amygdalin group was not significantly different (P > 0.05) from that
of hyperoxia group, S phase and G2/M phase percentage increased significantly (P 
< 0.01), G0/G1 phase percentage decreased significantly (P < 0.01). Western blot 
analysis showed that the protein expression levels of PCNA in all group was
significantly different, in turn, hyperoxia group < hyperoxia plus 200 micromol/L
amygdalin < air group < air puls 200 micromol/L amygdalin (P < 0.01). SPs mRNA
levels were significantly decreased in hyperoxia group, as compared with air
group (P < 0.01). After amygdalin was added, SPs mRNA levels were elevated in air
plus amygdalin group and hyperoxia plus amygdalin group, as compared with
hyperoxia group (P < 0.01, P < 0.05, respectively), but compared with air group, 
SP mRNA levels were not significantly elevated (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSION: AECIIs of premature rats were isolated, purified and cultured
successfully. Hyperoxia-exposed cell model was established in AECIIs of premature
rat in this experiment. Amygdalin promotes the proliferation of premature rat
AECII exposed to air or hyperoxia, the concentration of amygdalin with the best
effect was 200 micromol/L. Hyperoxia inhibited the proliferation and decreased
SPs mRNAs levels in AECIIs in vitro, which may contribute to hyperoxia-induced
lung injury in premature rats. Amygdalin could inhibit the changes of SPs mRNAs
levels and cell proliferation of AECIIs resulted from hyperoxia and may play
partial protective role in hyperoxia-induced premature lung injury.


PMID: 15833168  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1554. Yi Chuan Xue Bao. 2005 Feb;32(2):155-62.

[Molecular cloning and character analysis of the mouse zinc finger protein gene
Zfp474 exclusively expressed in testis and ovary].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhou C(1), Li LY, Lu GX.

Author information: 
(1)Institude of Reproductive &Stem Cell Engineering, Central South University,
Changsha 410078, China.

A novel mouse zinc finger protein gene that contains C2HC/C3H domain was first
isolated by using a data-mining tool called Digital Differential Display (DDD)
from the National Center for Biotechnology Information. The full-length cDNA of
this transcript was deduced and further confirmed by reverse transcriptase
polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Total four exons of the mouse gene spaning a 
29 869 bp genomic DNA sequence was mapped to chromosome 18D1. The cDNA encodes a 
novel protein of 347 amino acids and the protein contains four C2HC/C3H domains. 
Northern blot analyses revealed that Zfp474 mRNA was exclusively expressed in
testis and ovary and had one transcript. We hypothesize that Zfp474 functions as 
a germ cell specific transcription factor that plays important roles in spermatid
differentiation and oocyte development.


PMID: 15759862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1555. Am J Vet Res. 2005 Feb;66(2):300-6.

Cloning and expression of equine insulin-like growth factor binding proteins in
normal equine tendon.

Dahlgren LA(1), Nixon AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Comparative Orthopaedics Laboratory, Department of Clinical Sciences, College 
of Veterinary Medicine, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853-6401, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To define a portion of the nucleotide sequences of each of the 6
insulin-like growth factor (IGF) binding proteins (IGFBPs) in horses and describe
patterns of messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein expression for IGFBPs in normal
equine tendons.
ANIMALS: 7 horses.
PROCEDURE: Total RNA was extracted from the tensile region of normal superficial 
digital flexor tendons and reverse transcribed into complimentary DNA (cDNA). The
cDNA was amplified via PCR, and products representing portions of each IGFBP were
cloned and sequenced. Nucleotide sequences were used to deduce the amino acid
sequences, and both nucleotide and predicted amino acid sequences were compared
with those published for bovine, human, mouse, and ovine IGFBPs. Gene expression 
was quantitated by real-time PCR assay, and protein expression was evaluated by
western ligand blot (WLB).
RESULTS: Clones ranged in size from 262 to 522 bp and had high degrees of
sequence homology with other mammalian species. Sequence homology was highest
between bovine and equine IGFBPs (86% to 95%) and amongst the IGFBP-5 sequences
from the various species (92% to 95%). Message for IGFBP-2 to -6, but not
IGFBP-1, was expressed in normal tendon. Protein expression for IGFBP-2, -3, and 
-4 was detected byWLB in normal tendon and markedly increased in damaged tendons.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Results provide basic information and tools
needed for further characterization of the role of the IGF system in tendon
healing and may lead to the ability to potentiate the response of healing tendon 
to exogenous IGF-I via concurrent manipulation of IGFBPs.


PMID: 15757131  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1556. Acta Biochim Biophys Sin (Shanghai). 2005 Mar;37(3):159-66.

Molecular cloning of MSRG-11 gene related to apoptosis of mouse spermatogenic
cells.

Deng Y(1), Nie DS, Wang J, Tan XJ, Nie ZY, Yang HM, Hu LS, Lu GX.

Author information: 
(1)Human Reproductive and Stem Cell Engineering Institute, Central South
University, Changsha, China.

Beginning with a new contig of the expressed sequence tags (Mm.63892) obtained by
comparing testis libraries with other tissue and cell line libraries using the
digital differential display program, we cloned a new gene which is related to
the apoptosis of mouse spermatogenic cells using the Genscan program and
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technology. The sequence data have been submitted
to the GenBank database under accession number AY747687. The full cDNA length is 
1074 bp, and the gene with 7 exons and 6 introns is located in mouse chromosome 1
H5. The protein is recognized as a new member of calmodulin (CaM) binding protein
family because the sequence contains three short calmodulin-binding motifs
containing conserved Ile and Gln residues (IQ motif) and is considered to play a 
critical role in interactions of IQ motif-containing proteins with CaM proteins. 
The putative protein encoded by this gene has 192 amino acid residues with a
theoretical molecular mass of 23.7 kDa and a calculated isoelectric point of
9.71. The sequence shares no significant homology with any known protein in
databases. RT-PCR and Northern blot analyses revealed that 1.3 kb MSRG-11
transcript was strongly expressed in adult mouse testis but weakly expressed in
the spleen and thymus. The MSRG-11 gene was expressed at various levels, faintly 
at two weeks postpartum and strongly from three weeks postpartum in adult testes.
The green fluorescence produced by pEGFP-C2/MSRG-11 was detected in the cytoplasm
of COS7 cells 24 h post-transfection. The pcDNA3.1(?-)/MSRG-11 plasmid was
constructed and introduced into COS7 cells using Lipofectamine 2000 transfection 
reagent (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, USA). MSRG-11 can accelerate COS7 cell apoptosis, 
which suggests that this gene may play an important role in the development of
mouse testes and is a candidate gene of testis-specific apoptosis. Based on these
observations, it was considered that we cloned a new gene which probably
accelerates spermatogenetic cell apoptosis in mouse.


PMID: 15756417  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1557. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2005 Apr 8;329(2):632-7.

Cloning and characterization of full length of a novel zebrafish gene Zsrg
abundantly expressed in the germline stem cells.

Lv D(1), Song P, Chen Y, Gong W, Mo S.

Author information: 
(1)The Laboratory of Molecular Genetics and Developmental Biology, College of
Life Sciences, Wuhan University, Wuhan 430072, China.

Using the digital differential display program of the National Center for
Biotechnology Information, we identified a contig of expression sequence tags
(ESTs) (Accession No. BM316936), which came from zebrafish ovary and testis
libraries. The full-length cDNA of this transcript was cloned and further
confirmed by polymerase chain reaction and sequencing. The full-length cDNA of
the novel gene is 807bp and encodes a novel protein of 187 amino acids, which
shares no significant homology with any other known proteins. Characterization of
genomic sequences of the gene revealed that it spans 6kb on the linkage group 3
and is composed of five exons and four introns. RT-PCR analysis showed that it
was expressed in mature oocytes and one-cell stage, and persisted until 24h of
development. RT-PCR also revealed that it is expressed in gonad and kidney, with 
the highest level of expression in the testis. The expression sites of the novel 
gene in adult gonad were further localized by in situ hybridization to oogonia
and growing oocytes in ovary and to spermatogonia, spermatocytes but not to
spermatids in testis. Based on its abundance in testis and the germline stem
cell-spermatogonia and oogonia, we hypothesize that it may function as a
testicular development and gametogenesis related gene that plays important roles 
in spermatogenesis, and named it Zsrg (zebrafish testis spermatogenesis related
gene, Zsrg).

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2005.02.023 
PMID: 15737632  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1558. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2005 Mar 25;328(4):1010-8.

Identification of a novel testis-specific gene mtLR1, which is expressed at
specific stages of mouse spermatogenesis.

Nie DS(1), Xiang Y, Wang J, Deng Y, Tan XJ, Liang YH, Lu GX.

Author information: 
(1)Human Reproductive and Stem Cell Engineering Institute, Central South
University, 88 Xiangya Road, Changsha, Hunan 410078, PR China.

A novel testis-specific gene termed mtLR1 was identified by digital differential 
display. Sequence analyses revealed that mtLR1 protein contains an amino terminus
leucine-rich repeat domain and shows 33% similarities to PIDD which functions in 
p53-mediated apoptosis. Northern blot analysis showed that mtLR1 mRNA was
specifically expressed in adult mouse testis, and RT-PCR results also showed that
mtLR1 was exclusively expressed in adult testis and not in spermatogonial cells. 
The expression of mtLR1 mRNA was developmentally upregulated in the testes during
sexual maturation and was, conversely, downregulated by experimental
cryptorchidism in vivo. We also showed that the expression of mtLR1 mRNA was
relatively highly sensitive to heat stress in vitro. The green fluorescent
protein produced by pEGFP-C3/mtLR1 was only detected in the cytoplasm of
spermatogonia cell line GC-1 after 24 h posttransfection. Immunohistochemical
analysis revealed that the protein is most abundant in the cytoplasm of
spermatocytes and round spermatids within seminiferous tubules of the adult
testis. The time-dependent expression pattern of mtLR1 in postnatal mouse testes 
suggested that mtLR1 gene might be involved in the regulation of spermatogenesis 
and sperm maturation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2005.01.053 
PMID: 15707978  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1559. Zhonghua Yi Xue Yi Chuan Xue Za Zhi. 2005 Feb;22(1):5-9.

[HOXD13 polyalanine tract expansion in synpolydactyly: mutation detection and
prenatal diagnosis in a large Chinese family].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhao XL(1), Meng JP, Sun M, Ao Y, Wu AH, Lo HY, Zhang X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Genetics and National Key Laboratory of Medical
Molecular Biology, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of
Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, 100005 PR China.

OBJECTIVE: Synpolydactyly (SPD, MIM 186000), also known as syndactyly type II, is
a dominantly inherited limb malformation with incomplete penetrance and variable 
expressivity. Polyalanine tract expansion in HOXD13 has been shown to be the
disease-causing mutation in SPD. The present study was designed to identify
mutation in HOXD13 and to provide prenatal diagnosis, in a large Chinese SPD
family consisting of 54 individuals.
METHODS: The proband and 4 other affected individuals in the family were
evaluated physically and radiologically to ascertain the SPD phenotype. Genomic
DNA was extracted from peripheral blood samples obtained from 18 family members
(9 affected and 9 unaffected), and from amniotic fluid and chorionic villus
samples obtained from the proband during her two consecutive pregnancies. With
the use of a pair of specific primers, a fragment of 161bp was amplified by
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to cover the imperfect GCN triplet repeat
sequence in exon 1 of HOXD13 encoding the 15-residue polyalanine tract. The PCR
products were detected by agarose gel electrophoresis, and sequenced after
cloning into pMD18T vector. To confirm prenatal diagnosis, haplotype analysis was
also performed by allele-typing three microsatellite markers, including the
intronic CA repeats in HOXD13.
RESULTS: Digital and radiographic findings indicated a typical SPD phenotype in
the family. These included 3/4 finger syndactyly and 4/5 toe syndactyly with an
extra digit in the syndactylous web. Unilateral finger syndactyly in the proband,
unilateral toe syndactyly in 2 individuals, bilateral brachydactyly of the fifth 
toes in 1 individual, and clinodactyly of the fifth fingers in 4 individuals were
also observed, indicating variable expressivity. Gel electrophoresis of the PCR
products showed an additional longer fragment in all 9 affected individuals but
not in the unaffected ones. Sequence analysis of the longer fragment revealed a
9-alanine expansion. The expansion was detectable in DNA from the amniotic fluid 
and chorionic villus samples. Furthermore, haplotype analysis ruled out potential
contamination of the maternal DNA. These suggested that the two fetuses carried
the same polyalanine expansion.
CONCLUSION: HOXD13 polyalanine expansion was detected in a large Chinese family
with SPD and prenatal diagnosis of two affected fetuses was achieved. This is the
first report on prenatal diagnosis of SPD by detecting the HOXD13 polyalanine
expansion in the Han population of the Chinese mainland.


PMID: 15696469  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1560. Eur J Neurosci. 2005 Jan;21(2):301-16.

sgk1, a member of an RNA cluster associated with cell death in a model of
Parkinson's disease.

Stichel CC(1), Schoenebeck B, Foguet M, Siebertz B, Bader V, Zhu XR, Lübbert H.

Author information: 
(1)Biofrontera Pharmaceuticals GmbH, D-51377 Leverkusen, Germany.
c.stichel-gunkel@biofrontera.com

In an effort to gain deeper insight into the molecular processes underlying
neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease, we performed gene expression profiling 
at several early time points after MPTP-injection into old (1-year) mice. We used
a PCR-based gene expression profiling method, digital expression pattern display 
(DEPD), a method of very high sensitivity and reproducibility, which displays
almost all transcripts of a tissue. To identify cell death-associated genes, we
defined clusters of differentially expressed transcripts with expression
behaviour that correlated with the temporal profile of cell death progression and
characterized one of these cell death clusters further. We selected one of the
strongest regulated genes, the serum and glucocorticoid-regulated kinase 1
(sgk1), and validated its differential expression by Northern blot analysis,
semiquantitative PCR and in situ hybridization. Up-regulation of sgk1 (i)
coincides with the onset of dopaminergic cell death in both the 8-week acute and 
1-year subacute MPTP models, (ii) spans the entire brain, (iii) is attenuated by 
the l-deprenyl-mediated inhibition of the MPTP conversion to its active
metabolite MPP+ and (iv) is not induced by dehydration. This study demonstrated
that the combination of the DEPD technology, clustering analysis and a detailed
histopathology is a useful tool for elucidating molecular pathways in
neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2005.03859.x 
PMID: 15673431  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1561. Int J Mol Med. 2005 Feb;15(2):205-12.

In silico identification of breast cancer genes by combined multiple high
throughput analyses.

Shen D(1), He J, Chang HR.

Author information: 
(1)Gonda/UCLA Breast Cancer Research Laboratory, Revlon/UCLA Breast Center,
Department of Surgery, UCLA David Geffen School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA
90095, USA.

Publicly available human genomic sequence data provide an unprecedented
opportunity for researchers to decode the functionality of human genome. Such
information is extremely valuable in cancer prevention diagnosis and treatment.
Cancer Genome Anatomy Project (CGAP) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) are two
bioinformatic infrastructures for studying functional genomics. The goal of this 
study is to explore the feasibility of incorporating the Internet-available
bioinformatic databases to discover human breast cancer-related genes. Several
tools including the Gene Finder, Virtual Northern (vNorthern) and SAGE digital
gene expression displayer (DGED) were used to analyze differential gene
expression between benign and malignant breast tissues. A pilot study was
performed using both EST and SAGE vNorthern to analyze the expression of a panel 
of known genes, including high abundance genes beta-actin and G3PDH, low
abundance genes BRCA1 and p53, tissue-specific genes CEA and PSA and two breast
cancer-related genes Her2/neu and MUC1. We found a high expression of beta-actin 
and G3PDH and a low expression of BRCA1 and p53 across different types of tissues
as well as a tissue-specific expression of CEA in colon and PSA in prostate. A
further analysis of 30 known breast cancer-related genes in breast cancer tissues
by vNorthern demonstrated a high expression of oncogenes and low expression of
tumor suppressor genes. An open-end analysis of two pools of breast cancer and
benign breast tissue libraries by SAGE DGED produced 53 differentially expressed 
genes according to the screening criteria of a >five-fold difference and p<0.01. 
Further analysis by EST vNorthern and virtual microarray analysis reduced the
candidate genes to six, with four down-regulated genes, ANXA1, CAV1, KRT5 and
MMP7, and two up-regulated genes, ERBB2 and G1P3 in breast cancer. These findings
were validated by a real-time RT-PCR analysis in eight paired human breast cancer
tissue samples. We conclude that the combined multiple high throughput analyses
is an effective data mining strategy in cancer gene identification. This approach
may improve the usage of public available genomic data through strategic data
mining of high throughput analysis.


PMID: 15647832  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1562. Acta Biochim Biophys Sin (Shanghai). 2005 Jan;37(1):11-8.

Cloning, characterization and primary function study of a novel gene, Cymg1,
related to family 2 cystatins.

Xiang Y(1), Nie DS, Wang J, Tan XJ, Deng Y, Luo SW, Lu GX.

Author information: 
(1)Human Reproductive and Stem Cell Engineering Institute, Central South
University, Changsha 410078, China.

Cystatins are cysteine proteinase inhibitors. We found two expression sequence
tags (ESTs), CA463109 and AV042522, from a mouse testis library using Digital
differential display (DDD). By electrical hybridization, a novel gene, Cymg1
(GenBank accession No. AY600990), which has a full length of 0.78 kb, and
contains four exons and three introns, was cloned from a mouse testis cDNA
library. The gene is located in the 2G3 area of chromosome 2. The full cDNA
encompasses the entire open reading frame, encoding 141 amino acid residues. The 
protein has a cysteine protease inhibitor domain that is related to the family 2 
cystatins but lacks critical consensus sites important for cysteine protease
inhibition. These characteristics are seen in the CRES subfamily, which are
related to the family 2 cystatins and are expressed specifically in the male
reproductive tract. CYMG1 has a 44% (48/108) identity with mouse CRES and 30%
(42/140) identity with mouse cystatin C. Northern blot analysis showed that the
Cymg1 is specifically expressed in adult mouse testes. Cell location studies
showed that the GFP-tagged CYMG1 protein was localized in the cytoplasm of HeLa
cells. Immunohistochemistry revealed that the CYMG1 protein was expressed in
mouse testes spermatogonium, spermatocytes, round spermatids, elongating
spermatids and spermatozoa. RT-PCR results also showed that Cymg1 was expressed
in mouse testes and spermatogonium. The Cymg1 expression level varied in
different developmental stages: it was low 1 week postpartum, steadily increased 
2 to 5 weeks postpartum, and was highest 7 weeks postpartum. The expression level
at 5 weeks postpartum was maintained during 13 to 57 weeks postpartum. The Cymg1 
expression level in the testes over different developmental stages correlates
with the mouse spermatogenesis and sexual maturation process. All these indicate 
that Cymg1 might play an important role in mouse spermatogenesis and sexual
maturation.


PMID: 15645076  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1563. Chin Med J (Engl). 2004 Dec;117(12):1791-6.

Identification and expression of a novel human testis-specific gene by digital
differential display.

Li D(1), Lu GX.

Author information: 
(1)Institue of Reproductive and Stem Cell Engineering, Central South University, 
Changsha 410078, China. leedanie@163.net

BACKGROUND: Evidence for the importance of genetic factors in male infertility is
accumulating. This study was designed to identify a novel testis-specific gene
related to spermatogenesis by a new strategy of digital differential display
(DDD).
METHODS: Based on the generation of expressed sequenced tags (ESTs), comparing
the testis libraries with other tissue or cell line libraries by the DDD program,
we identified a new contig of the ESTs which were derived from testis libraries
and represented a novel gene. Multi-tissue RT-PCR was performed to analyse its
tissue-specific expression. The full-length cDNA of the new gene was obtained
using the BLAST program. Sequencing was performed and the result was analysed.
Semi-quantitative RT-PCR and Northern blot analyses of mRNA from differential
normal tissues were performed to clarify the expression pattern of the new gene. 
The sequence of the opening reading frame was integrated into the pQE-30 vector
expressed in Escherichia coil strain M15 (pREP4). With IPTG induction, the target
protein was detected.
RESULTS: A full-length cDNA sequence of the new gene named SPATA12 (GeneBank
accession number AY221117) in human testis was identified. SPATA12 was 2430 bp in
length, located in chromosome 3p21.1-3p21.2. The sequence of the opening reading 
frame was 676-1248 bp, as was confirmed by RT-PCR and sequencing. The cDNA
encodes a novel protein of 190 amino acids with a theoretical molecular weight of
20417.8 and isoelectric point of 5.23. The sequence has no significant homology
with any known protein in databases. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR and Northern-blot
analyses of multiple tissues showed that SPATA12 was expressed significantly in
normal human testis. The expression recombinant of SPATA12 was constructed and a 
high level of the histidine-tagged fusion protein was obtained.
CONCLUSIONS: DDD can be confirmed by SPATA12 as a novel computational
biology-based approach for identification of the testis-specific expression
genes. SPATA12 may function as a testicular germ cell associated gene that plays 
some roles in spermatogenesis. Moreover, a great amount of SPATA12 protein could 
be obtained by the gene recombination technique, thus providing a reliable
foundation for investigating the biological function of this new protein.


PMID: 15603706  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1564. Cell Calcium. 2005 Feb;37(2):173-82.

Identification of an N-terminal TRPC2 splice variant which inhibits calcium
influx.

Chu X(1), Tong Q, Wozney J, Zhang W, Cheung JY, Conrad K, Mazack V, Stahl R,
Barber DL, Miller BA.

Author information: 
(1)The Henry Hood Research Program, The Sigfried and Janet Weis Center for
Research, The Geisinger Clinic, Danville, PA 17822, USA.

TRPC2 is a member of the transient receptor potential (TRP) superfamily of
Ca2+-permeable channels expressed in nonexcitable cells. TRPC2 is involved in a
number of physiological processes including sensory activation of the vomeronasal
organ, sustained Ca2+ entry in sperm, and regulation of calcium influx by
erythropoietin. Here, a new splice variant of TRPC2, called "Similar to mouse
TRPC2" (smTRPC2), was identified consisting of 213 amino acids, largely
coincident with the N-terminus of TRPC2 clone 17. This splice variant lacks all
six TRPC2 transmembrane domains and the calcium pore. Expression of smTRPC2 was
found in all tissues examined by RT-PCR and in primary erythroid cells by RT-PCR 
and Western blotting. Confocal microscopy of CHO-S cells transfected with TRPC2
clone 14 and smTRPC2 demonstrated that TRPC2 clone 14 and smTRPC2 both localize
at or near the plasma membrane and in the perinuclear region. Cell surface
localization of TRPC2 was confirmed with biotinylation, and was not substantially
affected by smTRPC2 expression. Coassociation of TRPC2 c14 and alpha with smTRPC2
was confirmed by immunoprecipitation. To examine the functional significance of
smTRPC2 expression, a CHO-S model was used to study its effect on calcium influx 
stimulated by Epo through TRPC2. Single CHO-S cells which express transfected
Epo-R were identified by detection of green fluorescent protein (GFP). Cells that
express transfected TRPC2 c14 or alpha were identified by detection of blue
fluorescent protein (BFP). [Ca]i was quantitiated with Fura Red fluorescence
using digital video imaging. Epo stimulated calcium influx through TRPC2 isoforms
c14 and alpha, which was inhibited by coexpression of smTRPC2. These data
demonstrate that a short splice variant of TRPC2 exists in many cell types, which
associates with and modifies the activity of functional TRPC2 splice variants.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ceca.2004.08.005 
PMID: 15589997  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1565. Gynecol Oncol. 2004 Dec;95(3):610-7.

Comparison of gene expression in squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma of
the uterine cervix.

Contag SA(1), Gostout BS, Clayton AC, Dixon MH, McGovern RM, Calhoun ES.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Gynecologic Surgery, Mayo Clinic, 200 SW First Street, Rochester,
MN 55905, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Microarray expression analysis of cervical tumors has revealed
differential expression of genes that may be useful as markers or targets for
treatment. We question the application of array findings across the major
categories of cervical cancer. We sought to identify differences between normal
squamous epithelium (NSQ) and glandular epithelium (NGL) of the uterine cervix
and their malignant variants: squamous cell cancer (SCC) and adenocarcinoma
(ACA).
METHODS: Eight genes were selected: 12-lipoxygenase (12-LOX), keratin 4,
trypsinogen 2 (TRY2), Rh glycoprotein C (RhGC), collagen type V alpha 2, integrin
alpha 5, integrin alpha 6, and c-myc. Ten cases each of SCC and ACA of the cervix
were selected from our tumor bank. NSQ and NGL epithelia were obtained from
consecutive patients undergoing surgery for benign disease. RNA extraction, cDNA 
synthesis, and DNA amplification of all samples were performed according to an
established protocol. Electrophoresis of the multiplexed polymerase chain
reaction (PCR) products was performed under standard conditions, followed by
digital image capture. A ratio of target to control gene (beta-actin) was
obtained for each sample. Analysis of variance was applied to the mean ratios for
each tissue to establish significant differences. Individual pairwise comparisons
were made by Student t tests and verified with the Tukey-Kramer test.
RESULTS: Clinically valid comparisons are NSQ to NGL, NSQ to SCC, NGL to ACA, and
SCC to ACA. Various expression patterns were observed between the epithelia and
their malignant phenotypes. Significant differences in gene expression were
observed between benign squamous and glandular epithelium in four of the eight
genes and between malignant squamous and glandular epithelium in three of the
eight genes. Significant differences in gene expression between benign and
malignant tissues were demonstrated in four of the eight genes.
CONCLUSIONS: We have defined significant differential expression changes between 
the two principal cervical tumor types. Differences in genes are demonstrated and
must be considered if array technology is applied to the study of the biologic
behavior of these tumors as well as their screening and management. The observed 
differential expression should be a compelling argument to perform type-specific 
expression analysis for other tumors with histological variants.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2004.08.021 
PMID: 15581972  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1566. Methods Mol Med. 2005;103:137-41.

Digital single-nucleotide polymorphism analysis for allelic imbalance.

Chang HW(1), Shih IeM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD, USA.

Digital single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis is developed to amplify a
single template from a pool of DNA samples, thereby generating the amplicons that
are homogeneous in sequence. Different fluorophores are then applied as probes to
detect and discriminate different alleles (paternal vs maternal alleles or
wild-type vs mutant), which can be readily counted. In this way, digital SNP
analysis transforms the exponential and analog signals from conventional
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to linear and digital ones. Digital SNP analysis 
has the following advantages. First, statistical analysis of the PCR products
becomes available as the alleles can be directly counted. Second, this technology
is designed to generate PCR products of the same size; therefore, DNA degradation
would not be a problem as it commonly occurs when microsatellite markers are used
to assess allelic status in clinical samples. Last, digital SNP analysis is
designed to amplify a relatively small amount of DNA samples, which is available 
in some clinical samples. Digital SNP analysis has been applied in quantification
of mutant alleles and detection of allelic imbalance in clinical specimens and it
represents another example of the power of PCR and provides unprecedented
opportunities for molecular genetic analysis.


PMID: 15542903  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1567. Yi Chuan Xue Bao. 2004 Jun;31(6):545-51.

[Molecular cloning and expression analysis of a novel human testis-specific
gene].

[Article in Chinese]

Li D(1), Lu GX, Fu JJ, Mo YQ, Xing XW, Liu G.

Author information: 
(1)Reproductive and Stem Cell Engineering Institute, Central South University,
Changsha 410078, China. leedanie@163.net

Digital Differential Display (DDD) of the National Center for Biotechnology
Information (NCBI) is a quantitative method that enables the user to determine
the fold differences between the libraries being compaired, using a statistical
method to quantitate the transcript levels. In this study, DDD program was
performed between nine testis libraries ('tester') and seventy-six libraries
derived from other tissues ('driver'). We identified a new contig of expression
sequence tags (ESTs) HS. 129794 which were from testis libraries. To validate the
use of bioinformatics approaches in gene discovery, the ESTs HS. 129794, which
was predicted to be testis -specific, was chosen for further study. Reverse
transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis of mRNA from different 
normal tissues indicated that HS. 129794 was specifically expressed in human
testis. By querying EST and Unigene datagases, a full-length cDNA sequence of
novel gene in human were identified, it was 2 430 bp in length, located in
chromosome 3p21.1. The sequence of the open reading frame was 676 approximately 1
248 bp, as was confirmed by RT-PCR and sequencing in human testis. The cDNA
encodes a novel protein of 190 amino acids with a theoretical molecular weight of
20 417.8 and isoelectric point of 5.23. The sequence shares no significant
homology with any known protein in databases. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis
of multiple tissues further showed that the novel gene is expressed significantly
in different stage of human testis and sperm. We hypothensize that its functions 
as a testis-specific and spermatogenesis related gene that plays some roles in
spermatogenesis, and named it SRG5 (Testis Spermatogenesis Related Gene 5, SRG5) 
(GeneBank accession number: AY221117). Identification of SRG5 using DDD
approaches validates gene discovery using computational approaches.


PMID: 15490870  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1568. Biomed Pharmacother. 2004 Oct;58(8):451-7.

Restaging after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy for rectal adenocarcinoma: role of 
F18-FDG PET.

Capirci C(1), Rubello D, Chierichetti F, Crepaldi G, Carpi A, Nicolini A,
Mandoliti G, Polico C.

Author information: 
(1)Radiotherapy Department, S. Maria della Misericordia Rovigo Hospital, ASL 18, 
Rovigo, Italy. rt_ro1@yahoo.it

Multimodality treatment of loco-regional advanced rectal cancer has demonstrated 
to improve local control and overall survival. Proctoscopy, digital rectal
examination (DRE), computer tomography (CT), endorectal ultrasound (ERUS), and
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) cannot correctly detect downstaging in rectal
tumors after chemo radiation therapy (CRT). New imaging techniques, like 18F-FDG 
PET, may play some role in predicting the pathologic response to CRT before
surgical resection. Aim of the present study was to further investigate the
accuracy and predictive value of 18F-FDG PET in a large series of patients with
rectal cancer treated with preoperative intensified CRT. Between January 2000 and
December 2003, 81 patients with histologically proven adenocarcinoma in clinical 
stage II-III disease, according to criteria of TNM classification, were included 
in this study. All patients were submitted to diagnostic staging workup with DRE,
proctoscopy with biopsy, ERUS, CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis or pelvic MRI
plus liver ultrasonography, coloscopy or barium colonic enema. One month later
the end of CRT all patients were submitted to diagnostic restaging work-up (DRW) 
and 18F-FDG PET. Surgery was performed 8-9 weeks after the end of CRT and
pathologic stage was defined. Moreover a pathologic assessment of tumor
regression was made with tumor regression grade score (TRG). PET correctly
identified 22/28 (79% specificity) patients with complete pathologic response
(pCR). However, sensitivity was 45% (24/53) while PPV, and NPV were equal to 77
and 43%, respectively. Total PET accuracy rate was 56%. PET sensitivity increased
from 45 to 56% if the end-point was pCR, or TRG score, respectively. The best
correlation was found between PET findings and pathologic stage (P <0.01) or TRG 
score (P <0.01). The accurate identification of rectal cancer patients with major
pathological response after preoperative CRT further supports the necessity of
designing prospective studies with new and more accurate was imaging technologies
with the main object of offering conservative treatment in responder patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2004.08.005 
PMID: 15464875  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1569. Lab Invest. 2004 Nov;84(11):1439-50.

Cardiac involvement in non-human primates infected with the Lyme disease
spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi.

Cadavid D(1), Bai Y, Hodzic E, Narayan K, Barthold SW, Pachner AR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Neuroscience, UMDNJ-New Jersey Medical School,
Newark, NJ, USA. Cadavidi@umdnj.edu

To investigate cardiac involvement in the non-human primate (NHP) model of Lyme
disease, we inoculated 39 adult Macaca mulatta with Borrelia burgdorferi sensu
stricto strains N40 (BbN40) by needle (N=22, 14 immunocompetent (IC), seven
permanently immunosuppressed (IS), and four transiently immunosuppressed (TISP)) 
or by tick-bite (N=4, all TISP) or strain 297 (Bb297) by needle (N=2 IS), or with
B. garinii strains Pbi (N=4, 2 TISP and 2 IS), 793 (N=2, TISP) or Pli (N=2,
TISP). Five uninfected NHPs were used as controls. Infection and inflammation was
studied in the hearts and the aorta removed at necropsy 2-32 months after
inoculation by (1) H&E and trichrome-staining; (2) immunohistochemistry and
digital image analysis; (3) Western blot densitometry; and (4) TaqMan RT-PCR. All
NHPs inoculated with BbN40 became infected and showed carditis at necropsy. The
predominant cells were T cells, plasma cells, and macrophages. There was
increased IgG and IgM in the heart independent of immunosuppression. The B-cell
chemokine BLC was significantly increased in IS-NHPs. There was increased
deposition of the complement membrane attack complex (MAC) in TISP and IS-NHPs.
The spirochetal load was very high in all BbN40-inoculated IS-NHPs but minimal if
any in IC or TISP NHPs. Double-immunostaining revealed that many spirochetes in
the heart of BbN40-IS NHPs had MAC on their membranes. We conclude that carditis 
in NHPs infected with B. burgdorferi is frequent and can persist for years but is
mild unless they are immunosupressed.

DOI: 10.1038/labinvest.3700177 
PMID: 15448708  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1570. Tohoku J Exp Med. 2004 Oct;204(2):109-17.

Development of biometric DNA ink for authentication security.

Hashiyada M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Forensic Medicine, Department of Public Health and Forensic
Medicine, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, Sendai, Japan.
hashiyad@forensic.med.tohoku.ac.jp

Among the various types of biometric personal identification systems, DNA
provides the most reliable personal identification. It is intrinsically digital
and unchangeable while the person is alive, and even after his/her death.
Increasing the number of DNA loci examined can enhance the power of
discrimination. This report describes the development of DNA ink, which contains 
synthetic DNA mixed with printing inks. Single-stranded DNA fragments encoding a 
personalized set of short tandem repeats (STR) were synthesized. The sequence was
defined as follows. First, a decimal DNA personal identification (DNA-ID) was
established based on the number of STRs in the locus. Next, this DNA-ID was
encrypted using a binary, 160-bit algorithm, using a hashing function to protect 
privacy. Since this function is irreversible, no one can recover the original
information from the encrypted code. Finally, the bit series generated above is
transformed into base sequences, and double-stranded DNA fragments are amplified 
by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to protect against physical attacks.
Synthesized DNA was detected successfully after samples printed in DNA ink were
subjected to several resistance tests used to assess the stability of printing
inks. Endurance test results showed that this DNA ink would be suitable for
practical use as a printing ink and was resistant to 40 hours of ultraviolet
exposure, performance commensurate with that of photogravure ink.

Copyright 2004 Tohoku University Medical Press


PMID: 15383691  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1571. Int J Oncol. 2004 Oct;25(4):1049-56.

Search for epithelial-specific mRNAs in peripheral blood of patients with colon
cancer by RT-PCR.

Solmi R(1), De Sanctis P, Zucchini C, Ugolini G, Rosati G, Del Governatore M,
Coppola D, Yeatman TJ, Lenzi L, Caira A, Zanotti S, Taffurelli M, Carinci P,
Valvassori L, Strippoli P.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Histology and General Embriology, University of Bologna,
Fondazione CARISBO Centre for Research into Molecular Genetics, I-40126 Bologna, 
Italy.

Research has widely supported the efficacy of screening for colorectal cancer in 
reducing mortality. A blood-based assay potentially represents a more accessible 
early detection tool for the identification of solid tumor cells originating from
a primary tumor site in the body. We demonstrate a relatively easy and highly
reproducible technique for the detection of mRNA expression of genes as markers
of malignancy in blood samples of patients with colon cancer. The present study
aims to identify a set of specific mRNAs expressed in epithelial cells but not in
blood cells, which may be useful as markers for early detection of circulating
colon cancer cells by a simple, qualitative RT-PCR assay following semi-automated
RNA extraction from peripheral blood samples. Our approach includes a systematic 
search for candidate markers using digital differential display, search on
UniGene colon EST libraries and analysis of published data on colon cancer gene
expression. A final list included the following genes: bone morphogenetic protein
4 (BMP4), cyclin D (CycD), family with sequence similarity 3, member D (FAM3D),
gastrin (GAS), glycoprotein A33 transmembrane (GPA33), glutathione peroxidase 2
gastrointestinal (GPX2), galactoside-binding, soluble, 4 (galectin 4) (LGALS4),
non-SMC, structural maintenance of chromosomes, element 1 protein (NSE1),
tumor-associated calcium signal transducer 1 (TACSTD1), telomerase reverse
transcriptase (hTERT), trefoil factor 3 intestinal (TFF3), transmembrane 4
superfamily member 3 (TM4SF3), UDP glycosyltransferase 1 family, polypeptide A9
(UGT1A9), villin 1 (VIL1), and the novel gene FLJ20127. The mRNA expression of
these genes was evaluated in a pool of 16 samples from subjects diagnosed with
colon cancer and from 16 normal-controls. We observed expression in 13 of the 15 
investigated genes from the blood samples of the vast majority of patients
considered, but also in a certain percentage of the controls (from 14.3 to 100%).
This finding confirms that the extreme sensitivity of RT-PCR is able to detect
minimal amounts of mRNA expressed in a non tissue-specific manner ('illegitimate 
transcription'). On the contrary, NSE1 and GAS mRNAs were not detected either in 
patient or in control blood samples; however, they were abundantly expressed in
normal and cancerous colon mucosa, encouraging further search for useful markers 
able to detect epithelial cells in peripheral blood.


PMID: 15375555  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1572. Brain Res Mol Brain Res. 2004 Jul 26;126(2):114-20.

Calcium influx pathways in rat CNS pericytes.

Kamouchi M(1), Kitazono T, Ago T, Wakisaka M, Ooboshi H, Ibayashi S, Iida M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Clinical Science, Graduate School of Medical
Sciences, Kyushu University, Maidashi 3-1-1, Higashi, Fukuoka 812-8582, Japan.
kamouchi@intmed2.med.kyushu-u.ac.jp

In central nervous system (CNS), pericytes have been proposed to play a role in
broad functional activities including blood-brain barrier, microcirculation, and 
macrophage activity. However, contractile responses and Ca2+ signaling in CNS
pericytes have not been elucidated. The aim of the present study is to
investigate contractility and Ca2+ influx pathway in CNS pericytes. CNS pericytes
were cultured from rat brain. Contraction of the pericytes in response to various
stimuli was evaluated by the change in surface area measured by a light
microscope with a digital camera. Reverse transcription and polymerase chain
reaction (RT-PCR) was performed to examine the expression of mRNA of alpha-smooth
muscle actin. Intracellular Ca2+ was measured using fura-2 fluorescence
spectroscopy. A23187 (Ca2+ ionophore), high external K+ (4 x 10(-2) mol/l),
endothelin-1, and serotonin induced contraction of CNS pericytes. RT-PCR analysis
revealed the expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin in CNS pericytes. Cytosolic 
Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) increased after application of high concentration of external K+, 
tetraethylammonium, and charybdotoxin, which was inhibited by nicardipine and
removal of external Ca2+. Angiotensin-II, serotonin, acetylcholine, ATP, and
endothelin-1 caused biphasic response in [Ca2+]i. In response to these agents,
[Ca2+]i rapidly increased and then decayed to a relatively constant Ca2+ plateau.
The Ca2+ plateau was partially inhibited by nicardipine and completely abolished 
by omission of external Ca2+. After intracellular Ca2+ store was depleted by the 
removal of external Ca2+ and addition of thapsigargin, reapplication of external 
Ca2+ evoked increases in [Ca2+]i. These results indicate that CNS pericytes
express mRNA of alpha-smooth muscle actin and possess contractile ability. In CNS
pericytes, resting membrane potential is regulated by large conductance
Ca2+-activated K+ channels and Ca2+ enters into the cells via L-type
voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels, agonist-activated Ca2+ permeable channels, and
capacitative Ca2+ entry pathways.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molbrainres.2004.03.008 
PMID: 15249134  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1573. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2004 Jul;45(7):2263-71.

Role of lysophospholipid growth factors in the modulation of aqueous humor
outflow facility.

Mettu PS(1), Deng PF, Misra UK, Gawdi G, Epstein DL, Rao PV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North
Carolina 27710, USA.

PURPOSE: To investigate the role of lysophospholipid growth factors in the
regulation of aqueous humor outflow in the trabecular meshwork (TM).
METHODS: The expression profile of the endothelial differentiation gene (Edg)
family of G-protein coupled receptors was determined by RT-PCR of human TM (HTM) 
cell-derived total RNA and by PCR amplification of HTM cell-derived and
tissue-derived cDNA libraries. The effects of lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) and
sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) on actin cytoskeleton and focal adhesions and on
myosin light-chain (MLC) phosphorylation in HTM cells were evaluated by
immunofluorescence microscopy and Western blot analysis, respectively. Activation
of Rho GTPase in HTM cells was quantified by "pull-down" assays. Mobilization of 
intracellular calcium in HTM cells was determined using spectrofluorometric
digital-imaging microscopy. The effects of LPA and S1P on aqueous humor outflow
facility were evaluated by perfusion of enucleated porcine eyes.
RESULTS: Each of the receptor isoforms Edg1, -2, -3, and -4 was readily
detectable in three of four HTM cell-derived libraries, whereas Edg2 was
detectable in the HTM tissue library. LPA (20 microM) and S1P (1 microM)
stimulated actin stress fiber and focal adhesion formation, increased MLC
phosphorylation, and induced marked activation of Rho GTPase in HTM cells. Both
LPA (20 microM) and S1P (10 microM) also stimulated increases in intracellular
calcium concentration in HTM cells. LPA- and S1P-induced effects on MLC
phosphorylation in HTM cells were markedly inhibited by pretreatment with the Rho
kinase-specific inhibitor Y-27632 (5 microM). Perfusion of LPA (50 microM) and
S1P (5 microM) in enucleated porcine eyes produced a significant decrease in
aqueous humor outflow facility from baseline of 37% (n = 6) and 31% (n = 5),
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: These studies demonstrate that LPA and S1P, the physiological
agonists of Edg receptors, decrease outflow facility in perfused porcine eyes in 
association with increased MLC phosphorylation and Rho guanosine triphosphatase
(GTPase) activation. These data provide evidence for a novel mechanism for
negative regulation of outflow facility, which may contribute to overall
physiological homeostasis of aqueous humor outflow facility.


PMID: 15223804  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1574. Methods Mol Biol. 2004;270:423-38.

From genomes to vaccines for leishmaniasis.

Stober CB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Cambridge Institute for Medical Research, University
of Cambridge, UK.

A total of 2183 clones derived from four life cycle stage-specific,
spliced-leader cDNA libraries of Leishmania major LV39 Neal strain were randomly 
picked and sequenced to generate expressed sequence tags (ESTs). Then 1094 unique
genes were identified, with 18.2% having BLAST hits with known genes/proteins and
81.8% failing to match genes currently deposited in public databases.
Approximately 250 unique genes were obtained from a lesion-derived amastigote
complementary DNA (cDNA) library, the form of the parasite that is infective to
the mammalian host. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-amplified ESTs were spotted
onto glass slides, and DNA microarray used to identify a further approx 100
unique cDNAs highly expressed in amastigotes. One hundred unique, randomly
selected amastigote-expressed genes were PCR amplified to exclude the 5'-spliced 
leader, and the full-length genes subcloned into the TOPO-TA cloning vector. The 
genes were sequence-verified, excised using restriction enzyme digestion, and
cloned upstream of the eukaryotic cytomegalovirus promoter into the expression
vector pcDNA3. Expression plasmids were sequence-verified and large-scale,
endotoxin-free plasmids prepared. Then 100 microg of each expression plasmid (DNA
vaccine) was delivered subcutaneously to the rump of susceptible BALB/c mice, the
mice boosted 4 wk later and then challenged 2 wk post-boost with 2 x 10(6) L.
major LV39 parasites to the hind footpad. Infection was monitored on a weekly
basis by measuring footpad depth with digital calipers. Protection was scored by 
comparing the footpad depth of mice receiving empty vector DNA to those immunized
with DNA containing L. major amastigote-expressed genes.

DOI: 10.1385/1-59259-793-9:423 
PMID: 15153643  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1575. Methods Mol Biol. 2004;270:187-202.

Minisatellites and MVR-PCR for the individual identification of parasite
isolates.

MacLeod A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Centre for Molecular Parasitology, Anderson College, University of
Glasgow, UK.

In recent years, a wide variety of biochemical and molecular typing systems have 
been employed in the study of parasite diversity aimed at investigating the level
of genetic diversity and delineating the relationships among different species
and subspecies. Parasite sequence-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based 
genotyping systems are among the most useful tools employed to date, because they
can be applied to very small quantities of host-contaminated parasite material
and, using repeated loci such as mini- and microsatellites, allow the
identification and tracking of individual strains as well as the determination of
allele and genotype frequencies in populations. Although minisatellites have been
used very successfully to study parasite populations, in particular Trypanosoma
brucei populations, there are some technical problems involved in the use of
these markers. For example, minisatellite alleles tend to vary in a
quasi-continuous fashion, making unambiguous allele identification difficult. The
development of minisatellite variant repeat (MVR) mapping by the polymerase chain
reaction (MVR-PCR) as a digital approach to DNA typing has overcome many of the
drawbacks of minisatellite length analysis. The system assays the dispersion
patterns of MVRs within minisatellite alleles, producing an easily interpretable 
code for each allele. This technique not only allows unequivocal allele
identification but also reveals cladistic information that can be used to
determine the possible genetic relationships among the different strains and
subspecies. The MVR mapping technique has been applied successfully to
minisatellites in the parasite Plasmodium falciparum to uniquely identify
strains, and more extensively in Trypansoma brucei, where it was used to
determine population structure and to examine the relationships among T. brucei
subspecies, providing evidence for multiple origins of human infectively. In this
chapter, the methods for genotyping of T. brucei parasites using both
minisatellite allele length and MVR mapping are described in full and can be
easily adapted to apply to mini-satellites in other parasites.

DOI: 10.1385/1-59259-793-9:187 
PMID: 15153628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1576. Clin Cancer Res. 2004 May 1;10(9):3007-12.

Elevated expression of valosin-containing protein (p97) is associated with poor
prognosis of prostate cancer.

Tsujimoto Y(1), Tomita Y, Hoshida Y, Kono T, Oka T, Yamamoto S, Nonomura N,
Okuyama A, Aozasa K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka, 
Japan.

PURPOSE: Valosin-containing protein (VCP) has been shown to be associated with
metastasis and prognosis in human cancers. In the present study, the correlation 
of VCP with recurrence and prognosis in patients with prostate cancer (PCA)
receiving conservative therapy was examined.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: VCP expression was analyzed immunohistochemically in 136
patients ranging from 46 to 92 years (median, 72 years), who received
conservative therapy, including androgen deprivation, radiotherapy, or watchful
waiting. Staining intensity of tumor cells was categorized as weaker (level 1) or
equal to or stronger (level 2) than that in endothelial cells. The correlation of
VCP expression between the mRNA and protein levels was examined in 10 patients.
RESULTS: Thirty-two cases (23.5%) showed level 1 and 100 (76.5%) level 2 VCP
expression. Quantitative reverse transcription-PCR analysis revealed greater
VCPmRNA expression in level 2 (n = 5) than level 1 cases (n = 5; P < 0.05). A
significant difference was observed between VCP level 1 and 2 patients in the
positive rate for the digital rectal examination (P < 0.01), serum
prostate-specific antigen level (P < 0.0001), cancer volume (P < 0.0001), Gleason
score (P < 0.0001), stage (P < 0.0001), and progression-free and overall survival
(P < 0.0001 for both). Multivariate analysis revealed VCP expression level, serum
prostate-specific antigen level, and Gleason score to be independent
prognosticators for progression-free and overall survival. Progression of PCA was
found in 9.4% of level 1 but in 64% of level 2 patients.
CONCLUSIONS: PCA with level 1 VCP expression could be treated conservatively.


PMID: 15131036  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1577. Clin Chim Acta. 2004 May;343(1-2):191-4.

Effect of storage conditions on the extraction of PCR-quality genomic DNA from
saliva.

Ng DP(1), Koh D, Choo SG, Ng V, Fu Q.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Community, Occupational and Family Medicine (MD3), Faculty of
Medicine, National University of Singapore, 16, Medical Drive, Singapore 117597, 
Singapore.

BACKGROUND: Saliva is a potentially useful source of genomic DNA for genetic
studies since it can be collected in a painless and non-invasive manner. We
sought to determine whether different storage conditions of saliva samples impact
our ability to extract genomic DNA that is of sufficient quality for use in the
polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
METHODS: Saliva was collected from healthy volunteers and 2-ml aliquots subjected
to different storage conditions: S1--washing of saliva using phosphate-buffered
saline (PBS) and extraction of DNA on the same day of collection; S2--washing and
centrifugation to yield a pellet, which was stored at-70 degrees C for 1 week
prior to DNA extraction; S3--storage of whole saliva at 4 degrees C for 7 days,
followed by washing and extraction of DNA; S4--storage at 4 degrees C for 7 days,
followed by washing and pellet formation. The pellet was stored at -70 degrees C 
for 1 month before extraction of the DNA; S5--storage at-70 degrees C for 1
month, followed by washing and extraction of DNA. DNA yield and purity was
determined by spectrophotometry at 260 and 280 nm. Twenty nanograms of genomic
DNA was used for the polymerase chain reaction, and the resulting PCR band was
captured by digital photography and quantified.
RESULTS: The amounts of DNA extracted from 2 ml of saliva varied widely under the
different storage conditions, while purity of the DNA extraction, based on
OD(260/280) ratios, was good and comparable. PCR resulted in the presence of a
single specific product of the correct size from all samples regardless of saliva
storage conditions. Quantification of PCR bands showed significant differences
between the various storage conditions (P<0.05). Compared to S1 samples, PCR
bands from conditions S2 and S3 were not as strong, while those amplified from S4
and S5 samples were the weakest. Post-hoc analyses showed that the means for
conditions S4 and S5 were significantly different from S1-S3. Qualitatively
similar results were obtained when the PCR experiment was repeated.
CONCLUSIONS: Saliva can act as a useful source of genomic DNA, even when stored
under less than optimal conditions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cccn.2004.01.013 
PMID: 15115694  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1578. Genomics. 2004 May;83(5):924-31.

Thirtyfold multiplex genotyping of the p53 gene using solid phase capturable
dideoxynucleotides and mass spectrometry.

Kim S(1), Ulz ME, Nguyen T, Li CM, Sato T, Tycko B, Ju J.

Author information: 
(1)Columbia Genome Center, Columbia University College of Physicians and
Surgeons, New York, NY 10032, USA.

A mass spectrometry (MS) based multiplex genotyping method using solid phase
capturable (SPC) dideoxynucleotides and single base extension (SBE), named the
SPC-SBE, has been developed for mutation detection. We report here the
simultaneous genotyping of 30 potential point mutation sites in exons 5, 7, and 8
of the human p53 gene in one tube using the SPC-SBE method. The 30 mutation
sites, including the most frequently mutated p53 codons, were chosen to explore
the high multiplexing scope of the SPC-SBE method. Thirty primers specific to
each potential mutation site were designed to yield SBE products with sufficient 
mass differences. This was achieved by tuning the mass of some primers using
modified nucleotides. Genomic DNA was amplified by multiplex PCR to produce
amplicons of the three p53 exons. The 30 primers were combined with the PCR
products and biotinylated dideoxynucleotides for SBE to generate 3'-biotinylated 
extension DNA products. These products were then captured by streptavidin-coated 
magnetic beads, while the unextended primers and other components in the reaction
were washed away. The pure extension DNA products were subsequently released from
the solid phase and analyzed with MS. We simultaneously genotyped 30 potential
mutation sites in the p53 gene from Wilms' tumor, head and neck tumor, and
colorectal tumor. Both homozygous and heterozygous genotypes were accurately
determined with digital resolution. This is the highest level of multiplex
genotyping reported thus far using MS, indicating that the approach might be
applicable to screening a repertoire of genotypes in candidate genes as potential
disease markers.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygeno.2003.11.012 
PMID: 15081121  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1579. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2003 Dec;1007:340-8.

Steroid hormone signaling between Schwann cells and neurons regulates the rate of
myelin synthesis.

Rodriguez-Waitkus PM(1), Lafollette AJ, Ng BK, Zhu TS, Conrad HE, Glaser M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Neuroscience Program, University of Illinois,
Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA.

Fluorescence digital imaging microscopy was used to develop a method that allows 
the continuous monitoring and quantitative measurement of a single myelin
internode throughout its development. Using this technique, steroid hormones such
as progesterone and dexamethasone were shown to reduce the time required for the 
initiation and to regulate the rate of myelin synthesis. Progesterone was capable
of increasing the rate of myelin synthesis in Schwann cell/neuronal co-cultures
in a dose-dependent manner. RT-PCR and in situ hydridization studies revealed
that the mRNAs for P450scc and 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, the enzymes
involved in progesterone biosynthesis, were induced at the onset of myelin
synthesis. The progesterone receptor protein translocated into the nucleus of the
neurons during myelin synthesis, suggesting that progesterone could also be
affecting neuronal gene expression. Changes in gene expression caused by
progesterone are being examined to identify additional factors that may control
myelin formation.


PMID: 14993067  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1580. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2004 Mar;45(3):977-84.

Platelets adhering to the vascular wall mediate postischemic
leukocyte-endothelial cell interactions in retinal microcirculation.

Nishijima K(1), Kiryu J, Tsujikawa A, Miyamoto K, Honjo M, Tanihara H, Nonaka A, 
Yamashiro K, Katsuta H, Miyahara S, Honda Y, Ogura Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Kyoto University Graduate
School of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan.

PURPOSE: Recent evidence suggests that platelets play a major role in
ischemia-reperfusion injury, not only through thrombus formation but also through
participation in inflammatory reactions with leukocytes. This study was designed 
to investigate the contribution of platelets in leukocyte recruitment to inflamed
regions in vivo.
METHODS: Thrombocytopenia was produced in male Long-Evans rats by intravenous
injection of anti-platelet serum at 4 hours before ischemia-reperfusion.
Leukocyte behavior in retinal microcirculation was evaluated with acridine orange
digital fluorography. Expression of P-selectin in the postischemia retina was
investigated by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and
immunohistochemistry. After 14 days of reperfusion, ischemia-induced retinal
damage was evaluated histologically.
RESULTS: Leukocyte rolling along major retinal veins of thrombocytopenic rats was
dramatically suppressed, and subsequent leukocyte accumulation in the
postischemia retina was also significantly reduced (72.3%; P < 0.001) at 24 hours
after reperfusion. Although RT-PCR revealed no significant reduction of
P-selectin mRNA in platelet-depleted rat retina after transient ischemia,
immunohistologic examination showed suppression of P-selectin expression on the
vascular wall. Another immunologic examination using anti-platelet antibody
detected adherent platelets, which can also express P-selectin on their surfaces,
on postischemic vascular endothelium in vehicle-treated retina. Moreover,
blockage of platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa resulted in substantial inhibition of 
leukocyte rolling. In addition, histologic examination showed the participation
of platelets in retinal ischemia-reperfusion injury.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated that the expression of P-selectin on
platelets may contribute to the recruitment of leukocytes to tissues after
ischemia.


PMID: 14985320  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1581. Carcinogenesis. 2004 Jun;25(6):865-71. Epub 2004 Feb 4.

Over-expression of gastrin-releasing peptide in human esophageal squamous cell
carcinomas.

Fang MZ(1), Liu C, Song Y, Yang GY, Nie Y, Liao J, Zhao X, Shimada Y, Wang LD,
Yang CS.

Author information: 
(1)Susan Lehman Cullman Laboratory for Cancer Research, Department of Chemical
Biology, Ernest Mario School of Pharmacy, Rutgers, The State University of New
Jersey, Piscataway, NJ 08854-8020, USA.

Gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) is known as an autocrine growth factor for a
number of gastrointestinal cancers. There is, however, little information on the 
expression of GRP in the squamous epithelia and squamous cell carcinoma,
particularly in the esophagus. With a differential display approach, up-regulated
GRP was observed in human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) samples
obtained from a high-risk area for esophageal cancer, Linzhou in northern China. 
Up-regulation of phosphoglycerate mutase and P311 HUM (3.1) and down-regulation
of keratin 13, cystatin B, endoglin and annexin I were observed. Using a reverse 
transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method, significant
over-expression of GRP was observed in 10 out of 12 ESCC samples (83.3%) and all 
four ESCC cell lines. With in situ hybridization, GRP mRNA expression was
detected in nine out of 21 (42.8%) samples with basal cell hyperplasia (BCH),
five out of seven (71.4%) samples with dysplasia (DYS) and 17 out of 24 (70.9%)
ESCC samples. In contrast, GRP was expressed only in three out of 16 (18.7%)
normal epithelium. Digital image analysis revealed that the mean value of GRP
expression index, determined by intensity and area ratio of staining, was 0.19 in
normal epithelium, 1.23 in BCH, 2.94 in DYS and 2.38 in ESCC, showing a
progressive increase. Studies on ESCC cell lines showed GRP increased cell growth
in a dose-dependent pattern in GRP receptor-positive ESCC cells, but not in GRP
receptor-negative ESCC cells. GRP (1 mM) also increased cyclooxygenase-2 protein 
expression by 3.4-fold. This is the first demonstration that GRP is
over-expressed in ESCC, and its over-expression may play a role in ESCC
development and growth.

DOI: 10.1093/carcin/bgh097 
PMID: 14764456  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1582. Expert Rev Mol Diagn. 2004 Jan;4(1):41-7.

Principle and applications of digital PCR.

Pohl G(1), Shih IeM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, 418 North Bond Street, B-315, Baltimore, MD 21231,
USA.

Digital PCR represents an example of the power of PCR and provides unprecedented 
opportunities for molecular genetic analysis in cancer. The technique is to
amplify a single DNA template from minimally diluted samples, therefore
generating amplicons that are exclusively derived from one template and can be
detected with different fluorophores or sequencing to discriminate different
alleles (e.g., wild type vs. mutant or paternal vs. maternal alleles). Thus,
digital PCR transforms the exponential, analog signals obtained from conventional
PCR to linear, digital signals, allowing statistical analysis of the PCR product.
Digital PCR has been applied in quantification of mutant alleles and detection of
allelic imbalance in clinical specimens, providing a promising molecular
diagnostic tool for cancer detection. The scope of this article is to review the 
principles of digital PCR and its practical applications in cancer research and
in the molecular diagnosis of cancer.

Copyright Future Drugs Ltd.


PMID: 14711348  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1583. Br J Cancer. 2004 Jan 12;90(1):167-72.

Kallikrein gene downregulation in breast cancer.

Yousef GM(1), Yacoub GM, Polymeris ME, Popalis C, Soosaipillai A, Diamandis EP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Mount Sinai Hospital,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Recent evidence suggests that many members of the human kallikrein gene family
are differentially regulated in breast cancer and other endocrine-related
malignancies. In this study, we utilised the serial analysis of gene expression
(SAGE) and expressed sequence tag (EST) databases of the Cancer Genome Anatomy
Project (CGAP) to perform in silico analyses of the expression pattern of the 15 
human kallikrein genes in normal and cancerous breast tissues and cell lines
using different analytical tools such as Virtual Northern blotting, Digital
Differential Display and X-profiler. Our results indicate that at least four
kallikrein genes (KLK5, 6, 8, 10) are downregulated in breast cancer. Probing
eight normal and 24 breast cancer SAGE libraries with gene-specific tags for each
of the above kallikreins indicated moderate-to-high expression densities in
normal breast (27-319 tags per million; tpm, in two to five out of eight
libraries), compared to no or low expression (0 - 34 tpm in zero to two libraries
out of 24) in breast cancer. These data were verified by screening the EST
databases, where all mRNA clones isolated for these genes, except for one in
each, were from normal breast libraries, with no clones detected from breast
cancer tissues or cell lines (with the exception of KLK8). X-profiler comparison 
of two pools of normal and breast cancer libraries further verified the presence 
of significant downregulation of expression levels of 4 of the kallikreins genes 
(KLK5, 6, 10, 12). We experimentally verified the downregulation of these four
kallikreins (KLK5, 6, 8, 10 and 12) by RT - PCR analysis.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6601451 
PMCID: PMC2395319
PMID: 14710225  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1584. J Biol Chem. 2004 Mar 12;279(11):10514-22. Epub 2003 Dec 29.

Interaction of TRPC2 and TRPC6 in erythropoietin modulation of calcium influx.

Chu X(1), Tong Q, Cheung JY, Wozney J, Conrad K, Mazack V, Zhang W, Stahl R,
Barber DL, Miller BA.

Author information: 
(1)Henry Hood Research Program, The Sigfried and Janet Weis Center for Research, 
the Geisinger Clinic, Danville, Pennsylvania 17822-2616, USA.

Erythropoietin (Epo) modulates calcium influx through voltage-independent
calcium-permeable channel(s). Here, we characterized the expression of transient 
receptor potential channels (TRPCs) in primary erythroid cells and examined their
regulation. Erythroblasts were isolated from the spleens of
phenylhydrazine-treated mice, and Epo stimulation resulted in a significant and
dose-dependent increase in [Ca](i). Among the classical TRPC channels, expression
of three N-terminal splice variants of TRPC2 (clones 14, 17, and alpha) and of
TRPC6 were demonstrated in these erythroblasts by both reverse transcriptase-PCR 
and Western blotting. Confocal microscopy confirmed localization to the plasma
membrane. To determine the function of individual TRPC channels in erythropoietin
modulation of calcium influx, digital video imaging was used to measure calcium
influx through these TRPCs in a Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell model. Single
CHO-S cells, expressing transfected Epo-R, were identified by detection of green 
fluorescent protein. Cells that express transfected TRPCs were identified by
detection of blue fluorescent protein. [Ca](i) was monitored with Fura Red. Epo
stimulation of CHO-S cells transfected with single TRPC2 isoforms (clone 14, 17, 
or alpha) and Epo-R resulted in a significant increase in [Ca](i). This was not
observed in cells transfected with Epo-R and TRPC6. In addition, coexpression of 
TRPC6 with TRPC2 and Epo-R inhibited the increase in [Ca](i) observed after Epo
stimulation. Immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated that TRPC2 associates
with TRPC6, indicating that these TRPCs can form multimeric channels. These data 
demonstrate that specific TRPCs are expressed in primary erythroid cells and that
two of these channels, TRPC2 and TRPC6, can interact to modulate calcium influx
stimulated by erythropoietin.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M308478200 
PMID: 14699131  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1585. Lab Invest. 2004 Feb;84(2):160-72.

Spinal cord involvement in the nonhuman primate model of Lyme disease.

Bai Y(1), Narayan K, Dail D, Sondey M, Hodzic E, Barthold SW, Pachner AR, Cadavid
D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Neuroscience, and Center for the Study of Emerging
Pathogens, UMDNJ-New Jersey Medical School, Newark, NJ 07103, USA.

Lyme borreliosis is a multisystemic disease caused by infection with various
genospecies of the spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi. The organs most often
affected are the skin, joints, the heart, and the central and peripheral nervous 
systems. Multiple neurological complications can occur, including aseptic
meningitis, encephalopathy, facial nerve palsy, radiculitis, myelitis, and
peripheral neuropathy. To investigate spinal cord involvement in the nonhuman
primate (NHP) model of Lyme borreliosis, we inoculated 25 adult Macaca mulatta
with B. burgdorferi sensu strictu strains N40 by needle (N=9) or by tick (N=4) or
297 by needle (N=2), or with B. burgdorferi genospecies garinii strains Pbi
(N=4), 793 (N=2), or Pli (N=4) by needle. Immunosuppression either transiently
(TISP) or permanently (IS) was used to facilitate establishment of infection.
Tissues and fluids were collected at necropsy 7-24 weeks later. Hematoxylin and
eosin staining was used to study inflammation, and immunohistochemistry and
digital image analysis to measure inflammation and localize spirochetes. The
spirochetal load and C1q expression were measured by TaqMan RT-PCR. The results
showed meningoradiculitis developed in only one of the 25 NHP's examined, TISP
NHP 321 inoculated with B. garinii strain Pbi. Inflammation was localized to
nerve roots, dorsal root ganglia, and leptomeninges but rarely to the spinal cord
parenchyma itself. T cells and plasma cells were the predominant inflammatory
cells. Significantly increased amounts of IgG, IgM, and C1q were found in
inflamed spinal cord. Taqman RT-PCR found spirochetes in the spinal cord only in 
IS-NHP's, mostly in nerve roots and ganglia rather than in the cord parenchyma.
C1q mRNA expression was significantly increased in inflamed spinal cord. This is 
the first comprehensive study of spinal cord involvement in Lyme borreliosis.

DOI: 10.1038/labinvest.3700024 
PMID: 14688796  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1586. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2003 Dec;7(12 Suppl 3):S453-7.

Genotyping in contact investigations: a CDC perspective.

Crawford JT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Tuberculosis/Mycobacteriology Branch, Division of AIDS, STD, and TB Laboratory
Research, National Center for Infectious Diseases, Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia 30333, USA. jcrawford@cdc.gov

Genotyping of Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates has been widely used to support
investigations of outbreaks and as a tool for studying transmission dynamics and 
other aspects of tuberculosis epidemiology. Its applications to contact
investigations are more limited. Targeted typing can be used to confirm or
disprove suspected relationships among cases. Universal typing of isolates can be
used to identify unsuspected transmission and broaden the scope of contact
investigations. In order to properly use the results, one must understand the
nature of the changes in the M. tuberculosis genome that produce the
heterogeneity reflected in the genotypes, and understand the discriminatory power
of the various methods. IS6110 fingerprinting provides the highest discriminatory
power, but can be a slow process. Spoligotyping and MIRU-VNTR are PCR-based
methods that provide faster turnaround and produce digital results that
facilitate comparisons. Appropriately used, isolate genotyping can be a useful
adjunct to standard contact investigations.


PMID: 14677837  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1587. Infect Immun. 2003 Dec;71(12):7087-98.

Infection and inflammation in skeletal muscle from nonhuman primates infected
with different genospecies of the Lyme disease spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi.

Cadavid D(1), Bai Y, Dail D, Hurd M, Narayan K, Hodzic E, Barthold SW, Pachner
AR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Medicine and Dentistry of New
Jersey, New Jersey Medical School, Newark, New Jersey 07103, USA.
Cadavidi@umdnj.edu

Lyme borreliosis is a multisystemic disease caused by various genospecies of the 
spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi. To investigate muscle involvement in the
nonhuman primate (NHP) model of Lyme disease, 16 adult Macaca mulatta animals
inoculated with strain N40 of B. burgdorferi sensu strictu by syringe or by tick 
bite or with strain Pbi of B. burgdorferi genospecies garinii by syringe were
studied. Animals were necropsied while immunosuppressed on day 50 (two animals
each inoculated with B. burgdorferi N40 by syringe and with B. garinii Pbi by
syringe) or on day 90, 40 days after immunosuppression had been discontinued
(four animals each inoculated with strain N40 by syringe, with strain N40 by tick
bite, and with strain Pbi by syringe). Skeletal muscles removed at necropsy were 
studied by (i) microscopic examination of hematoxylin-eosin-stained sections for 
inflammation and tissue injury; (ii) immunohistochemical and digital image
analyses for antibody and complement deposition and cellular inflammation; (iii) 
Western blot densitometry for the presence of antibodies; and (iv) reverse
transcription-PCR for measurement of the spirochetal load or C1q (the first
component of the complement cascade) synthesis. The results showed that N40 was
more infectious for NHPs than Pbi. NHPs inoculated with N40 but not with Pbi
developed myositis. The inflammation in skeletal muscle was more severe in NHPs
inoculated with N40 by syringe than in those inoculated by tick bite. The
predominant cells in the inflammatory infiltrate were T cells and plasma cells.
The deposition of antibody and complement in inflamed muscles from N40-inoculated
NHPs was significantly higher than that in Pbi-inoculated NHPs. The spirochetal
load was very high in the two N40-inoculated NHPs examined while they were
immunosuppressed but decreased to minimal levels in the NHPs when
immunocompetence was restored. We conclude that myositis can be a prominent
feature of Lyme borreliosis depending on the infecting organism and host immune
status.


PMCID: PMC308929
PMID: 14638799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1588. World J Gastroenterol. 2003 Nov;9(11):2419-23.

Construction and analysis of SSH cDNA library of human vascular endothelial cells
related to gastrocarcinoma.

Liu YB(1), Wei ZX, Li L, Li HS, Chen H, Li XW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Medical Genetics, Medical College of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, 450052, Henan Province, China. liuyb415@163.net

AIM: To construct subtracted cDNA libraries of human vascular endothelial cells
(VECs) related to gastrocarcinoma using suppression substractive hybridization
(SSH) and to analyze cDNA libraries of gastrocarcinoma and VECs in Cancer Gene
Anatomy Project (CGAP) database.
METHODS: Human VECs related to gastric adenocarcinoma and corresponding normal
tissue were separated by magnetic beads coupled with antibody CD31 (Dynabeads
CD31). A few amount of total RNA were synthesized and amplified by SMART PCR cDNA
Synthesis Kit. Then, using SSH and T/A cloning techniques, cDNA fragments of
differentially expressed genes in human VECs of gastric adenocarcinoma were
inserted into JM109 bacteria. One hundred positive bacteria clones were randomly 
picked and identified by colony PCR method. To analyze cDNA libraries of
gastrocarcinoma and VECs in CGAP database, the tools of Library Finder, cDNA
xProfiler, Digital GENE Expression Displayer (DGED), and Digital Differential
Display (DDD) were used.
RESULTS: Forward and reverse subtraction cDNA libraries of human VECs related to 
gastrocarcinoma were constructed successfully with SSH and T/A cloning
techniques. Analysis of CGAP database indicated that no appropriate library of
VECs related to carcinoma was constructed.
CONCLUSION: Construction of subtraction cDNA libraries of human VECs related to
gastrocarcinoma was successful and necessary, which laid a foundation for
screening and cloning new and specific genes of VECs related to gastrocarcinoma.


PMCID: PMC4656513
PMID: 14606068  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1589. Oncogene. 2003 Oct 23;22(48):7687-94.

Comparison of medulloblastoma and normal neural transcriptomes identifies a
restricted set of activated genes.

Boon K(1), Edwards JB, Siu IM, Olschner D, Eberhart CG, Marra MA, Strausberg RL, 
Riggins GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Duke University Medical Center, Box 3156, Durham NC
27710, USA.

Over 1.4 million transcript tags expressed in 20 different human medulloblastomas
were counted using serial analysis of gene expression. Digital gene expression
profiles in the medulloblastoma were compared to multiple regions of the normal
human brain, revealing 30 transcripts with high expression in multiple tumors and
little or no expression in the normal cerebellum and other adult and pediatric
brain regions. Using independent medulloblastoma samples and normal tissue,
real-time PCR verified eight of nine selected genes as candidate tumor-associated
antigens. Differential protein expression for CD24, prolactin and Topo2A was
further confirmed by immunohistochemical analysis using medulloblastoma and
normal brain sections and a tissue microarray. The genes highly expressed in the 
medulloblastoma include PRAME, a cancer-testis antigen and potential targets for 
immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.onc.1207043 
PMID: 14576832  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1590. Cancer Res. 2003 Oct 1;63(19):6469-77.

Selectively increased expression and functions of chemokine receptor CCR9 on CD4+
T cells from patients with T-cell lineage acute lymphocytic leukemia.

Qiuping Z(1), Qun L, Chunsong H, Xiaolian Z, Baojun H, Mingzhen Y, Chengming L,
Jinshen H, Qingping G, Kejian Z, Zhimin S, Xuejun Z, Junyan L, Jinquan T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Medical College, Wuhan University, Dong Hu Road 115,
Wuchang 430 071, Wuhan, P.R. China.

In a total of 38 typical T-cell lineage acute lymphocytic leukemia (T-ALL) and
T-cell lineage chronic lymphocytic leukemia (T-CLL) cases investigated, we found 
that CC chemokine receptor CCR9 was selectively and frequently expressed on T-ALL
CD4+ T cells, was moderately expressed on T-CLL CD4+ T cells, and was rarely
expressed on normal CD4+ T cells. These findings were demonstrated at protein and
mRNA levels using flow cytometry and real-time quantitative reverse
transcription-PCR technique and were verified by digital confocal microscopy and 
Northern blotting. Thymus-expressed chemokine, a ligand for CCR9, selectively
induced T-ALL CD4+ T-cell chemotaxis and adhesion. Interleukin (IL)-2 and IL-4,
together, down-regulated the expression and functions of CCR9 in T-ALL CD4+ T
cells including chemotaxis and adhesion. It was also demonstrated that IL-2 and
IL-4, together, internalized CCR9 on T-ALL CD4+ T cells and subsequently
inhibited functions of CCR9 in these cells. Thymus-expressed chemokine mRNA was
highly expressed in CD4+ T cells, involving lymph node and skin in T-ALL
patients, and was expressed at moderate levels in lymph node and skin tissues in 
T-CLL patients. Our findings may provide new clues to understanding various
aspects of T-ALL CD4+ T cells, such as functional expression of
CCR9-thymus-expressed chemokine receptor-ligand pairs as well as the effects of
IL-2 and IL-4, which may be especially important in cytokine/chemokine
environment for the pathophysiological events of T-ALL CD4+ T-cell trafficking.


PMID: 14559839  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1591. Ai Zheng. 2003 Oct;22(10):1062-5.

[Expression of transporter associated with antigen processing (TAP) in childhood 
acute leukemia and its clinical significance].

[Article in Chinese]

Xie JJ(1), Hu YM, Lu YY, Li ZG, Gong WY, Yu SM, Sun J.

Author information: 
(1)The 304th Hospital of PLA, Beijing, 100037, P R China.

BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVE: Transporter associated with antigen processing(TAP)
participates in immune surveillance, so it is probably relevant to
carcinogenesis. Investigation of expression of TAP and its clinical significance 
in childhood acute leukemia will be helpful to clarify pathogenesis and to
develop immunotherapy strategy.
METHODS: RT-PCR analysis was used to detect the expression of TAP1 and TAP2 in
leukemia cells from bone marrow in 34 inpatients with primary acute lymphoblastic
leukemia (ALL), 15 inpatients with relapsed ALL, 20 inpatients with acute
medullary leukemia (AML), and 20 surgical inpatients without systematic disorders
as control. And then,the absorbance (A) values of expanded bands were measured by
digital imaging analyzer and relative A values were worked out based on A value
of GAPDH (positive inside control).
RESULTS: The relative A values of TAP1(0.448+/-0.167 and
0.169+/-0.021,respectively) and TAP2(0.196+/-0.180 and 0.112+/-0.020,
respectively) in primary ALL group and relapsed ALL group were lower than those
in control group (P< 0.01). The A values of LMP2, LMP7, and PA28alpha
(991.4+/-532.7, 686.3+/-663.8, and 2022.3+/-1622.3, respectively) in relapsed ALL
group were lower than those in control group (P less than 0.01,0.01 and 0.05,
respectively). The A value of LMP2 in relapsed group was lower than that in
control (P< 0.01). The A values of LMP7 for the cases with no remission and
relapse were both lower than that for the cases with constant complete remission 
in primary ALL group (P< 0.01). The relative A value of TAP2 in AML group was
lower than that in control group (P< 0.05). The relative A value of TAP1 in
relapsed ALL group was lower than that in primary ALL group (P< 0.05). In primary
ALL group, the relative A value of TAP1 (0.215+/-0.159) for cases with relapse
(6/34 cases) was lower than that (0.462+/-0.189) for those with constant complete
remission (24/34 cases) (P< 0.05).
CONCLUSION: There exists decreased expression of TAP in both childhood ALL and
AML, which probably contributes to the escape of leukemia cells from immune
surveillance. Decreased expression of TAP1 subunit is probably related to the
relapse of ALL.


PMID: 14558951  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1592. J Huazhong Univ Sci Technolog Med Sci. 2003;23(3):242-4, 253.

Mutation identification in a 5-generation pedigree with autosomal dominant
retinitis pigmentosa.

Teng Y(1), Tian H, Wang H, Hu X, Wang W, Chen Y, Yang Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of
Science and Technology, Wuhan 430030.

An extended 5-generation family has been investigated in which 32 of the 111
family members were diagnosed as having retinitis pigmentosa (RP). The proband
was a 58-year old male in whom night-blindness was first observed in early
childhood, with almost loss of vision by 52 years of age. The symptoms observed
in other family members included night-blindness, impaired vision and visual
field loss. Dementia, digital abnormalities, deaf-mutism and mental retardation
were variously diagnosed in a number of individuals with RP. The affected and
unaffected family members were tested for mutations in a range of candidate
genes. The 8 exons of three candidate genes have been analyzed by polymerase
chain reaction-single strand conformation polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) and DNA
sequencing techniques. A novel mutation was identified in the rhodopsin gene at
codon 52 of exon 1 (TTC-TAC) that resulted in a substitution of Phe to Tyr.


PMID: 14526423  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1593. Water Sci Technol. 2003;48(3):121-6.

Microbial quantification in activated sludge: the hits and misses.

Hall SJ(1), Keller J, Blackall LL.

Author information: 
(1)School of Molecular and Microbial Sciences, The University of Queensland, St. 
Lucia 4072, Australia. s.hall1@uq.edu.au

Since the implementation of the activated sludge process for treating wastewater,
there has been a reliance on chemical and physical parameters to monitor the
system. However, in biological nutrient removal (BNR) processes, the
microorganisms responsible for some of the transformations should be used to
monitor the processes with the overall goal to achieve better treatment
performance. The development of in situ identification and rapid quantification
techniques for key microorganisms involved in BNR are required to achieve this
goal. This study explored the quantification of Nitrospira, a key organism in the
oxidation of nitrite to nitrate in BNR. Two molecular genetic microbial
quantification techniques were evaluated: real-time polymerase chain reaction
(PCR) and fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) followed by digital image
analysis. A correlation between the Nitrospira quantitative data and the nitrate 
production rate, determined in batch tests, was attempted. The disadvantages and 
advantages of both methods will be discussed.


PMID: 14518863  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1594. Mech Dev. 2002 Dec;119 Suppl 1:S285-91.

Exhaustive identification of human class II basic helix-loop-helix proteins by
virtual library screening.

McLellan AS(1), Langlands K, Kealey T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, University of Cambridge, Addenbrooke's
Hospital, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 2QR, UK. a.mclellan@ucc.ie

Cellular proliferation, specification and differentiation in developing tissues
are tightly coordinated by groups of transcription factors in response to
extrinsic and intrinsic signals. Furthermore, renewable pools of stem cells in
adult tissues are subject to similar regulation. Basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH)
proteins are a group of transcription factors that exert such a determinative
influence on a variety of developmental pathways from C. elegans to humans, and
we wished to exclusively identify novel members from within the whole human bHLH 
family. We have, therefore, developed an 'empirical custom fingerprint', to
define the class II bHLH domain and exclusively identify these proteins in
silico. We have identified nine previously uncharacterised human class II
proteins, four of which were novel, by interrogating conceptual translations of
the GenBank HTGS database. RT-PCR and mammalian 2-hybrid analysis of a subset of 
the factors demonstrated that they were indeed expressed, and were able to
interact with an appropriate binding partner in vitro. Thus, we are now
approaching an almost complete listing of human class II bHLH factors.


PMID: 14516699  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1595. Methods Mol Biol. 2003;236:365-80.

Expression profiling using cDNA microarrays.

Zhao S(1), Bruce WB.

Author information: 
(1)Pioneer Hi-Bred International, Inc., Johnson, IA, USA.

Microarray technology has become increasingly useful in measuring expression
levels of a large number of genes and part of a repertoire of functional genomic 
tools. We describe the methods of cDNA microarray preparation, the use, data
collection, and initial data processing. The cDNA fragments are first prepared by
polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and then attached to a solid substrate, such as 
a chemically treated glass slide. Robotic machines spot the prepared cloned cDNA 
samples in a miniaturized gridded pattern, so that nanoliter amounts of tens of
thousands cDNA samples are bound to a single 7.5 x 2.5 cm glass slide. Probes are
generated from RNA samples of test and control tissues by incorporating Cyanine
dyes (Cy3 or Cy5) in reverse-transcribed products. Probes from a test sample are 
labeled with one of two Cy dyes and mixed in equal amounts with probes from a
control sample labeled with the second dye. The glass slides containing the cDNA 
microarray are hybridized with the mixed Cy-labeled probes, washed, dried, and
scanned using laser scanners with an optimized wavelength to excite each Cy dye. 
The emission image patterns for each dye are captured by a digital camera using
micro-optics and processed into numerical values that positively correlate with
quantitative levels of mRNA for each cDNA spot on the slide. The collected data
is then further processed, normalized across experiments, and examined via
numerous statistical and mathematical approaches to infer changes in expression
levels of particular genes due to the treatment tested.

DOI: 10.1385/1-59259-413-1:365 
PMID: 14501076  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1596. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2003 Sep 30;100(20):11559-64. Epub 2003 Sep 15.

Single-nucleotide polymorphism genotyping on optical thin-film biosensor chips.

Zhong XB(1), Reynolds R, Kidd JR, Kidd KK, Jenison R, Marlar RA, Ward DC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Yale University School of Medicine, 333 Cedar Street, 
New Haven, CT 06510, USA.

Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) constitute the bulk of human genetic
variation and provide excellent markers to identify genetic factors contributing 
to complex disease susceptibility. A rapid, sensitive, and inexpensive assay is
important for large-scale SNP scoring. Here we report the development of a
multiplex SNP detection system using silicon chips coated to create a thin-film
optical biosensor. Allele-discriminating, aldehyde-labeled oligonucleotides are
arrayed and covalently attached to a hydrazinederivatized chip surface. Target
sequences (e.g., PCR amplicons) then are hybridized in the presence of a mixture 
of biotinylated detector probes, one for each SNP, and a thermostable DNA ligase.
After a stringent wash (0.01 M NaOH), ligation of biotinylated detector probes to
perfectly matched capture oligomers is visualized as a color change on the chip
surface (gold to blue/purple) after brief incubations with an anti-biotin
IgG-horseradish peroxidase conjugate and a precipitable horseradish peroxidase
substrate. Testing of PCR fragments is completed in 30-40 min. Up to several
hundred SNPs can be assayed on a 36-mm2 chip, and SNP scoring can be done by eye 
or with a simple digital-camera system. This assay is extremely robust, exhibits 
high sensitivity and specificity, and is format-flexible and economical. In
studies of mutations associated with risk for venous thrombosis and
genotyping/haplotyping of African-American samples, we document high-fidelity
analysis with 0 misassignments in 500 assays performed in duplicate.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1934783100 
PMCID: PMC208797
PMID: 12975525  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1597. Prostate. 2003 Oct 1;57(2):111-7.

Positive correlation between single or combined genotypes of CYP1A1 and GSTM1 in 
relation to prostate cancer in Chilean people.

Acevedo C(1), Opazo JL, Huidobro C, Cabezas J, Iturrieta J, Quiñones Sepúlveda L.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Chemical Carcinogenesis and Pharmacogenetics, Programe of
Molecular and Clinical Pharmacology, ICBM, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Chile, Santiago, Chile.

BACKGROUND: The prostate cancer is a slowly progressing disease that begins
decades prior to diagnosis. It has been suggested that there might be differences
in susceptibility due to genetic polymorphisms in biotransformation enzyme genes.
In the present work, associations between CYP1A1(Msp1), GSTM1(-/-) polymorphisms,
and prostate cancer were analyzed in a case-control study.
METHODS: Genomic DNA was isolated from peripheral blood samples, collected on
EDTA. PCR-RFLP was used to determine simultaneously Msp1 and GSTM1(-/-)
polymorphisms.
RESULTS: In cancer patients, frequency of m2 variant allele (0.377) and
GSTM1(-/-) (0.362) showed statistically significant increases compared to the
control group (0.262 and 0.227, respectively). The estimate relative risks (OR)
were higher for individuals carrying combined CYP1A1 and GSTM1 rare genotypes, in
relation to individuals carrying CYP1A1 or GSTM1 alone. Multivariate logistic
regression analysis including confounding factors (age, digital examination, and 
PSA antigen) showed even higher risk for individuals carrying m2m2 genotype (OR =
3.99; 95% CI, 1.27-12.54), GST(-/-) genotype (OR = 2.75; 95% CI, 1.31-5.79), and 
m2m2/GST(-) genotype (OR = 16.63; 95% CI, 1.67-165.48).
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, these findings suggest that Chilean people carrying 
single or combined GSTM1 and CYP1A1 polymorphisms are more susceptible to
prostate cancer.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/pros.10274 
PMID: 12949934  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1598. Am J Physiol Cell Physiol. 2004 Jan;286(1):C31-42. Epub 2003 Aug 27.

Differential Ca2+ signaling by thrombin and protease-activated
receptor-1-activating peptide in human brain microvascular endothelial cells.

Kim YV(1), Di Cello F, Hillaire CS, Kim KS.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Infectious Diseases, Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, 600 N. Wolfe Street, Park 256, Baltimore, MD 21287, USA.

Thrombin and related protease-activated receptors 1, 2, 3, and 4 (PAR1-4) play a 
multifunctional role in many types of cells including endothelial cells. Here,
using RT-PCR and immunofluorescence staining, we showed for the first time that
PAR1-4 are expressed on primary human brain microvascular endothelial cells
(HBMEC). Digital fluorescence microscopy and fura 2 were used to monitor
intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) changes in response to thrombin and
PAR1-activating peptide (PAR1-AP) SFFLRN. Both thrombin and PAR1-AP induced a
dose-dependent [Ca2+]i rise that was inhibited by pretreatment of HBMEC with the 
phospholipase C inhibitor U-73122 and the sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum
Ca2+-ATPase inhibitor thapsigargin. Thrombin induced transient [Ca2+]i increase, 
whereas PAR1-AP exhibited sustained [Ca2+]i rise. The PAR1-AP-induced sustained
[Ca2+]i rise was significantly reduced in the absence of extracellular calcium or
in the presence of an inhibitor of store-operated calcium channels, SKF-96365.
Restoration of extracellular Ca2+ to the cells that were initially activated by
PAR1-AP in the absence of extracellular Ca2+ resulted in significant [Ca2+]i
rise; however, this effect was not observed after thrombin stimulation.
Pretreatment of the cells with a low thrombin concentration (0.1 nM) prevented
[Ca2+]i rise in response to high thrombin concentration (10 nM), but pretreatment
with PAR1-AP did not prevent subsequent [Ca2+]i rise to high PAR1-AP
concentration. Additionally, treatment with thrombin decreased transendothelial
electrical resistance in HBMEC, whereas PAR1-AP was without significant effect.
These findings suggest that, in contrast to thrombin, stimulation of PAR1 by
untethered peptide SFFLRN results in stimulation of store-operated Ca2+ influx
without significantly affecting brain endothelial barrier functions.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpcell.00157.2003 
PMID: 12944324  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1599. Clin Cancer Res. 2003 Jul;9(7):2673-7.

Prostate cancer detection by GSTP1 methylation analysis of postbiopsy urine
specimens.

Gonzalgo ML(1), Pavlovich CP, Lee SM, Nelson WG.

Author information: 
(1)The James Buchanan Brady Urological Institute, The Johns Hopkins Medical
Institutions, Baltimore, Maryland 21287-2101, USA.

PURPOSE: We assess the feasibility of a urinary test for prostate cancer
detection in a high-risk patient cohort based on methylation-specific PCR
analysis of the pi class glutathione S-transferase (GSTP1) gene promoter.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: A total of 45 men underwent transrectal ultrasound-guided
biopsy of the prostate for suspected malignancy. Clean-catch voided urine
specimens were prospectively collected from each patient immediately after
biopsy. Genomic DNA was isolated from urine specimens and subjected to sodium
bisulfite modification. Methylation of the GSTP1 promoter was examined in a
blinded manner by methylation-specific PCR analysis and correlated with pathology
results, and clinical information was obtained from the patient record.
RESULTS: Methylation of GSTP1 in the urine was detected in a total of 18 of 36
(50%) informative cases. A total of 7 of 18 (39%) patients with prostate
adenocarcinoma identified on their initial biopsy had detectable urinary GSTP1
methylation (58% sensitivity among informative cases). Abnormal urinary GSTP1
methylation was also detected in 7 of 21 (33%) patients without evidence of
cancer on biopsy and in 4 of 6 (67%) patients diagnosed with atypia or high-grade
prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia.
CONCLUSIONS: We have demonstrated the feasibility of a novel, noninvasive
molecular approach for the detection of epigenetic changes associated with
prostate cancer. A screening test based on GSTP1 methylation in the urine
specimens of patients with suspected prostate malignancy may be a useful adjunct 
to serum screening tests and digital rectal examination findings for
identification of men at increased risk of harboring cancer despite a negative
biopsy. This molecular assay has potential application for stratification of
patients into low- and high-risk groups for surveillance versus repeat biopsy.


PMID: 12855646  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1600. Kidney Int. 2003 Aug;64(2):534-43.

Dose-dependent effects of strontium on osteoblast function and mineralization.

Verberckmoes SC(1), De Broe ME, D'Haese PC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nephrology-Hypertension, University of Antwerp, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: Strontium-ranelate is now being used in the treatment of osteoporosis
in elderly patients. As the majority of these patients already have a decreased
renal function they are at an increased risk for accumulation of the element.
Recent findings from epidemiologic studies in dialysis patients and experimental 
data obtained in a chronic renal failure (CRF) rat model established a
dose-related multiphasic effect of strontium (Sr) on bone formation. To confirm
these in vivo findings an in vitro set-up, consisting of primary rat osteoblast
cultures, was applied. Sr was added to the culture medium at concentrations of 0,
0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 5.0, 20, and 100 microg/mL, respectively.
METHODS: Calcium incorporation (index of mineralization) and alkaline phosphatase
activity were determined in the medium during the culture period, while at the
end of the experiment, nodule formation (mineralized + unmineralized area) was
quantified using a digital imaging system. mRNA synthesis of various osteoblast
specific genes was assessed by means of reverse transcription polymerase chain
reaction (RT-PCR).
RESULTS: Compared to the control group (0 microg/mL Sr), a significantly reduced 
nodule formation in the presence of an intact mineralization was found for the
lowest 0.5 and 1 microg/mL Sr doses, suggesting an impaired in vitro osteoblast
differentiation. Both nodule formation and mineralization were normal for the 2
and 5 microg/mL doses. For the highest Sr doses (20 and 100 microg/mL) a reduced 
mineralization was observed in the presence of an intact nodule formation
indicating an inhibitory effect on the hydroxyapatite formation. The alkaline
phosphatase activity reflected the multiphasic pattern of the nodule formation
while the calcium incorporation corresponded with the pattern of nodular
mineralization. No variations in cell proliferation were found. RT-PCR revealed
that Sr interfered with the osteoblast at the level of the mRNA synthesis of
several relevant genes.
CONCLUSION: Using the proposed in vitro model we confirmed the multiphasic effect
of Sr on bone formation previously demonstrated in a CRF rat model. The data
presented allow us to suggest that at low concentrations Sr interferes with the
bone formation at the level of cell differentiation, whereas at high
concentrations the disturbed mineralization in the presence of an intact nodule
formation is indicative for a physicochemical interference of Sr with the
hydroxyapatite formation.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1523-1755.2003.00123.x 
PMID: 12846748  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1601. J Neurosci. 2003 Jul 2;23(13):5572-82.

Expression of voltage-gated chloride channels in human glioma cells.

Olsen ML(1), Schade S, Lyons SA, Amaral MD, Sontheimer H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Civitan International Research Center,
University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama 35294, USA.

Voltage-gated chloride channels have recently been implicated as being important 
for cell proliferation and invasive cell migration of primary brain tumors cells.
In the present study we provide several lines of evidence that glioma Cl-
currents are primarily mediated by ClC-2 and ClC-3, two genes that belong to the 
ClC superfamily. Transcripts for ClC-2 thru ClC-7 were detected in a human glioma
cell line by PCR, whereas only ClC-2, ClC-3, and ClC-5 protein could be
identified by Western blot. Prominent ClC-2, -3, and -5 channel expression was
also detected in acute patient biopsies from low- and high-grade malignant
gliomas. Immunogold electron microscopic studies as well as digital confocal
imaging localized a portion of these ClC channels to the plasma membrane.
Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings show the presence of two pharmacologically and 
biophysically distinct Cl- currents that could be specifically reduced by 48 hr
exposure of cells to channel-specific antisense oligonucleotides. ClC-3 antisense
selectively and significantly reduced the expression of outwardly rectifying
current with pronounced voltage-dependent inactivation. Such currents were
sensitive to DIDS (200-500 microm) and 5-nitro-2-(3-phenylpropylamino) benzoic
acid (165 microm). ClC-2 antisense significantly reduced expression of inwardly
rectifying currents, which were potentiated by hyperpolarizing prepulses and
inhibited by Cd2+ (200-500 microm). Currents that were mediated by ClC-5 could
not be demonstrated. We suggest that ClC-2 and ClC-3 channels are specifically
upregulated in glioma membranes and endow glioma cells with an enhanced ability
to transport Cl-. This may in turn facilitate rapid changes in cell size and
shape as cells divide or invade through tortuous extracellular brain spaces.


PMID: 12843258  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1602. Biotechniques. 2003 Jun;34(6):1212-4, 1216-9.

Improved protocol for SAGE tag-to-gene allocation.

Kannbley U(1), Kapinya K, Dirnagl U, Trendelenburg G.

Author information: 
(1)Humboldt University Berlin, Germany

Serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) is a powerful method for large-scale
analysis of gene expression patterns. SAGE yields digital information on
transcript abundance by the use of short sequence fragments (tags). Because SAGE 
does not require a priori knowledge of the expressed genes in the starting
material, SAGE can be used for gene discovery. Unfortunately, correct tag-to-gene
discovery. Unfortunately, correct tag-to-gene allocation after SAGE remains
problematic when the short sequence of the tag corresponds to more than one gene 
in the reference database or when novel yet uncloned genes were detected. To
overcome this problem, we developed an improved protocol for the proper
identification of tag-corresponding genes. It relies on the isolation of
3'-terminal cDNA restriction fragments by the use of paramagnetic streptavidin
beads and the ligation of linkers before the amplification step. Our protocol
benefits from additional information encoded in each SAGE tag: its location
3'-terminal to the last NlaIII restriction site in the cDNA. In contrast to
previously described protocols, stringent PCR conditions can be applied because
of the length of the specific primers, which are composed of linker- and
tag-specific sequences. Additionally, we demonstrate that our protocol yields
quantitative information that can be used for further expression analysis of
specific SAGE tags.


PMID: 12813889  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1603. An Sist Sanit Navar. 2003;26 Suppl 1:49-63.

[Acute pharmacologic poisoning (I). Psychotropic and antiarrhythmic drugs].

[Article in Spanish]

Osés I(1), Burillo-Putze G, Munne P, Nogué S, Pinillos MA.

Author information: 
(1)Servicio de Medicina Intensiva, Hospital de Navarra, Irunlarrea 3, 31008
Pamplona, Spain.

In the evaluation of Acute Drug Poisoning (ADP) in patients seriously ill with a 
potentially non-toxic dose of the drug that is theoretically responsible, it is
important to insist on anamnesis in the coingestion of other drugs or toxics.
Initially attention is given to life support measures, oxygenation, protection of
the airway and expanding the volemia. The ECG is a diagnostic tool of the first
order in ADPs, above all for tricyclic antidepressants (TAD) and cardio-vascular 
drugs. In the majority of cases continuous monitoring is usually necessary during
the first 12-24 hours. The benzodiazepines do not usually give rise to serious
poisoning. The use of flumazenil will be reserved for cases of respiratory
depression, deep coma or where the cause is undetermined. They can give rise to
convulsions, above all in the case of mixed poisonings with anti-depressants and 
abstinence syndrome. The TADs have an enormous potential seriousness, as they can
cause mortal arrhythmias. The therapeutic range of lithium is very narrow; it can
produce signs of basically digestive and neurological toxicity. In the case of
poisoning by digoxin, the use of anti-digital anti-bodies will be considered in
cases of serious bradyarrhythmias, AV blocks or PCR. Glucagon is the antidote for
serious poisoning by beta-blockers and for refractory hypotension in cases of
calcioantagonists.


PMID: 12813478  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1604. Microbiology. 2003 May;149(Pt 5):1083-93.

Genetic relatedness and phenotypic characteristics of Treponema associated with
human periodontal tissues and ruminant foot disease.

Edwards AM(1), Dymock D, Woodward MJ, Jenkinson HF.

Author information: 
(1)Oral Microbiology Unit, Department of Oral and Dental Science, University of
Bristol Dental School, Lower Maudlin Street, Bristol BS1 2LY, UK.

Treponema have been implicated recently in the pathogenesis of digital dermatitis
(DD) and contagious ovine digital dermatitis (CODD) that are infectious diseases 
of bovine and ovine foot tissues, respectively. Previous analyses of treponemal
16S rDNA sequences, PCR-amplified directly from DD or CODD lesions, have
suggested relatedness of animal Treponema to some human oral Treponema species
isolated from periodontal tissues. In this study a range of adhesion and
virulence-related properties of three animal Treponema isolates have been
compared with representative human oral strains of Treponema denticola and
Treponema vincentii. In adhesion assays using biotinylated treponemal cells, T.
denticola cells bound in consistently higher numbers to fibronectin, laminin,
collagen type I, gelatin, keratin and lactoferrin than did T. vincentii or animal
Treponema isolates. However, animal DD strains adhered to fibrinogen at
equivalent or greater levels than T. denticola. All Treponema strains bound to
the amino-terminal heparin I/fibrin I domain of fibronectin. 16S rDNA sequence
analyses placed ovine strain UB1090 and bovine strain UB1467 within a cluster
that was phylogenetically related to T. vincentii, while ovine strain UB1466
appeared more closely related to T. denticola. These observations correlated with
phenotypic properties. Thus, T. denticola ATCC 35405, GM-1, and Treponema UB1466 
had similar outer-membrane protein profiles, produced chymotrypsin-like protease 
(CTLP), trypsin-like protease and high levels of proline iminopeptidase, and
co-aggregated with human oral bacteria Porphyromonas gingivalis and Streptococcus
crista. Conversely, T. vincentii ATCC 35580, D2A-2, and animal strains UB1090 and
UB1467 did not express CTLP or trypsin-like protease and did not co-aggregate
with P. gingivalis or S. crista. Taken collectively, these results suggest that
human oral-related Treponema have broad host specificity and that similar control
or preventive strategies might be developed for human and animal
Treponema-associated infections.

DOI: 10.1099/mic.0.26111-0 
PMID: 12724370  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1605. World J Gastroenterol. 2003 Apr;9(4):765-70.

Expression of growth hormone receptor and its mRNA in hepatic cirrhosis.

Wang HT(1), Chen S, Wang J, Ou QJ, Liu C, Zheng SS, Deng MH, Liu XP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hepato-biliary Surgery, Sun Yat-Sen Memorial Hospital, the
Second Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou 510120, Guangdong
Province, China. sumswht@hotmail.com

AIM: To investigate the expression of growth hormone receptor (GHR) and mRNA of
GHR in cirrhotic livers of rats with the intension to find the basis for
application of recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) to patients with liver
cirrhosis.
METHODS: Hepatic cirrhosis was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats by administration
of thioacetamide intraperitoneally for 9-12 weeks. Collagenase IV was perfused in
situ for isolation of hepatocytes. The expression of GHR and its mRNA in
cirrhotic livers was studied with radio-ligand binding assay, RT-PCR and digital 
image analysis.
RESULTS: One class of specific growth hormone-binding site, GHR, was detected in 
hepatocytes and hepatic tissue of cirrhotic livers. The binding capacity of GHR
(R(T), fmol/mg protein) in rat cirrhotic liver tissue (30.8+/-1.9) was
significantly lower than that in normal control (74.9+/-3.9) at the time point of
the ninth week after initiation of induction of cirrhosis (n=10, P<0.05), and it 
decreased gradually along with the accumulation of collagen in the process of
formation and development of liver cirrhosis (P<0.05). The number of binding
sites (X10(4)/cell) of GHR on rat cirrhotic hepatocytes (0.86+/-0.16) was
significantly lower than that (1.28+/-0.24) in control (n=10, P<0.05). The
binding affinity of GHR among liver tissue, hepatocytes of various groups had no 
significant difference (P>0.05). The expression of GHR mRNA (riOD, pixel) in rat 
cirrhotic hepatic tissues (23.3+/-3.1) was also significantly lower than that
(29.3+/-3.4) in normal control (n=10, P<0.05).
CONCLUSION: The growth hormone receptor was expressed in a reduced level in liver
tissue of cirrhotic rats, and lesser expression of growth hormone receptors was
found in a later stage of cirrhosis. The reduced expression of growth hormone
receptor was partly due to its decreased expression on cirrhotic hepatocytes and 
the reduced expression of its mRNA in cirrhotic liver tissue.


PMCID: PMC4611446
PMID: 12679928  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1606. World J Gastroenterol. 2003 Apr;9(4):650-4.

Loss of clusterin both in serum and tissue correlates with the tumorigenesis of
esophageal squamous cell carcinoma via proteomics approaches.

Zhang LY(1), Ying WT, Mao YS, He HZ, Liu Y, Wang HX, Liu F, Wang K, Zhang DC,
Wang Y, Wu M, Qian XH, Zhao XH.

Author information: 
(1)National Laboratory of Molecular Oncology, Cancer Institute and Hospital,
Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing
100021, Beijing, China.

AIM: To identify the differentially secreted proteins or polypeptides associated 
with tumorigenesis of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) from serum and to
find potential tumor secreted biomarkers.
METHODS: Proteins from human ESCC tissue and its matched adjacent normal tissue; 
pre-surgery and post-surgery serum; and pre-surgery and normal control serum were
separated by two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) to identify differentially
expressed proteins. The silver-stained 2-DE were scanned with digital
ImageScanner and analyzed with ImageMaster 2D Elite 3.10 software. A cluster of
protein spots differentially expressed were selected and identified with
matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry
(MALDI-TOF-MS). One of the differentially expressed proteins, clusterin, was
down-regulated in cancer tissue and pre-surgery serum, but it was reversed in
post-surgery serum. The results were confirmed by semi-quantitative
reverse-transcription (RT)-PCR and western blot.
RESULTS: Comparisons of the protein spots identified on the 2-DE maps from human 
matched sera showed that some proteins were differentially expressed, with most
of them showing no differences in composition, shape or density. Being analyzed
by MALDI-TOF-MS and database searching, clusterin was differentially expressed
and down-regulated in both cancer tissue and pre-surgery serum compared with
their counterparts. The results were also validated by RT-PCR and western blot.
CONCLUSION: The differentially expressed clusterin may play a key role during
tumorigenesis of ESCC. The 2DE-MS based proteomic approach is one of the powerful
tools for discovery of secreted markers from peripheral.


PMCID: PMC4611421
PMID: 12679903  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1607. Can J Microbiol. 2003 Jan;49(1):1-8.

Genetic profiling of noncultivated bacteria from the rhizospheres of sugar beet
(Beta vulgaris) reveal field and annual variability but no effect of a transgenic
herbicide resistance.

Schmalenberger A(1), Tebbe CC.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Agrarökologie, Bundesforschungsanstalt für Landwirtschaft (FAL), 
Bundesallee 50, 38116 Braunschweig, Germany.

In this field study, we compared the bacterial communities inhabiting the
rhizosphere of a transgenic, herbicide-resistant sugar beet (Beta vulgaris)
cultivar with those of its nonengineered counterpart, using a genetic profiling
technique based on PCR amplifications of partial 16S rRNA gene sequences and
single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP). As a control for the plasticity
of the bacterial community, we also analyzed the influence of herbicides, the
field heterogeneity, and the annual variation. DNA was isolated from bacterial
cell consortia that were directly collected from root material. PCR was carried
out with primers that hybridized to evolutionarily conserved regions flanking
variable regions 4 and 5 of the 16S rRNA gene. SSCP patterns of these PCR
products were composed of approximately 50 distinguishable bands, as detected by 
silver staining of the gels after electrophoresis. Patterns of the replicates and
the different treatments were highly similar, but digital image and similarity
analyses revealed differences that corresponded to the positions of the
replicates in the field. In addition, communities collected from sugar beet in
two successive growing seasons could be distinguished. In contrast, no effect of 
the transgenic herbicide resistance was detectable. Sequencing of 24 dominant
products of the SSCP profiles indicated the presence of bacteria from different
phylogenetic groups, with Proteobacteria and members of the
Cytophaga-Flavobacterium-Bacteroides group being most abundant.

DOI: 10.1139/w02-111 
PMID: 12674342  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1608. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2003 Apr;14(4):899-907.

Renal mRNA levels as prognostic tools in kidney diseases.

Eikmans M(1), Baelde HJ, Hagen EC, Paul LC, Eilers PH, De Heer E, Bruijn JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The
Netherlands. M.Eikmans@LUMC.NL

Comment in
    J Am Soc Nephrol. 2003 Apr;14(4):1096-8.

Molecular biologic techniques are currently considered as new diagnostic and
prognostic parameters with a sensitivity and specificity exceeding those of
histologic and functional data currently used in clinical practice. The results
in various clinical settings have been of limited value up to now. This study is 
an investigation of the use of tissue levels of RNA determined in routine
clinical kidney biopsies as prognostic tools. The focus was on RNA encoding for
molecules known to be involved in the pathogenesis of renal disorders. Fresh
kidney biopsy tissue was obtained from 52 patients with various renal diseases.
The GFR was followed for 12 mo. The extent of glomerulosclerosis and interstitial
fibrosis in the biopsies was determined with quantitative digital image analysis.
Glomerular and tubulointerstitial compartments from each biopsy specimen were
separated, and mRNA levels of TGF-beta, collagen I, collagen IV, and fibronectin 
were quantitated by real-time PCR. Correlations, along with 95% confidence
intervals (CI), between all variables tested at time biopsy were determined. To
assess their prognostic value, these variables were correlated with the slope of 
GFR within several time intervals after biopsy. In addition, to evaluate the
predictive value of the variables for outcome in individual patients, differences
for each variable were tested between patients showing progressive decline in
renal function (slope GFR < 0) and patients showing stable or improving renal
function over time (slope GFR >or= 0). In chronic renal diseases, the extent of
histologic damage correlated with the GFR at the time of biopsy (r = -0.44; CI
-0.68 to -0.11), but it did not correlate with the slope expressing a change in
GFR after the biopsy. Tubulointerstitial TGF-beta mRNA levels correlated with the
rate of change in GFR between time of biopsy and 1 mo later (r = 0.41; CI, 0.07
to 0.67). The GFR at the time of biopsy correlated with the slope of change in
GFR between time of biopsy and 12 mo later (r = -0.50; CI, -0.73 to -0.18). In
chronic renal diseases, glomerular fibronectin mRNA levels, in comparison with
the GFR at time of biopsy, correlated relatively strongly with the slope of
change in GFR between 3 and 12 mo (r = 0.50; CI, 0.16 to 0.74). Patients with
favorable renal outcome after 12 mo showed significantly higher TGF-beta mRNA
levels and lower proteinuria levels at time of biopsy (P < 0.05) than patients
with a progressive decline in renal function. This study shows that mRNA levels
measured in kidney biopsies can function as prognostic tools in human renal
diseases. In particular, relatively high levels of tubulointerstitial TGF-beta
mRNA and glomerular fibronectin mRNA are associated with less deterioration in
renal function.


PMID: 12660324  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1609. Genome Biol. 2003;4(3):R20. Epub 2003 Feb 18.

Characterizing the stress/defense transcriptome of Arabidopsis.

Mahalingam R(1), Gomez-Buitrago A, Eckardt N, Shah N, Guevara-Garcia A, Day P,
Raina R, Fedoroff NV.

Author information: 
(1)Life Sciences Consortium, Pennsylvania State University, State College, PA
16802, USA.

BACKGROUND: To understand the gene networks that underlie plant stress and
defense responses, it is necessary to identify and characterize the genes that
respond both initially and as the physiological response to the stress or
pathogen develops. We used PCR-based suppression subtractive hybridization to
identify Arabidopsis genes that are differentially expressed in response to
ozone, bacterial and oomycete pathogens and the signaling molecules salicylic
acid (SA) and jasmonic acid.
RESULTS: We identified a total of 1,058 differentially expressed genes from eight
stress cDNA libraries. Digital northern analysis revealed that 55% of the
stress-inducible genes are rarely transcribed in unstressed plants and 17% of
them were not previously represented in Arabidopsis expressed sequence tag
databases. More than two-thirds of the genes in the stress cDNA collection have
not been identified in previous studies as stress/defense response genes. Several
stress-responsive cis-elements showed a statistically significant
over-representation in the promoters of the genes in the stress cDNA collection. 
These include W- and G-boxes, the SA-inducible element, the abscisic acid
response element and the TGA motif.
CONCLUSIONS: The stress cDNA collection comprises a broad repertoire of
stress-responsive genes encoding proteins that are involved in both the initial
and subsequent stages of the physiological response to abiotic stress and
pathogens. This set of stress-, pathogen- and hormone-modulated genes is an
important resource for understanding the genetic interactions underlying stress
signaling and responses and may contribute to the characterization of the stress 
transcriptome through the construction of standardized specialized arrays.


PMCID: PMC153460
PMID: 12620105  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1610. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2003 Mar;14(3):680-9.

OFD1, the gene mutated in oral-facial-digital syndrome type 1, is expressed in
the metanephros and in human embryonic renal mesenchymal cells.

Romio L(1), Wright V, Price K, Winyard PJ, Donnai D, Porteous ME, Franco B,
Giorgio G, Malcolm S, Woolf AS, Feather SA.

Author information: 
(1)Nephro-Urology Unit, Institute of Child Health, University College London,
England. lromio@ich.ucl.ac.uk

Oral-facial-digital syndrome type 1 (OFD1) causes polycystic kidney disease (PKD)
and malformations of the mouth, face and digits. Recently, a gene on Xp22, OFD1, 
was reported to be mutated in a limited set of OFD1 patients. This study
describes mutation analysis in six further OFD1 families. Additionally, gene
expression was sought in human development. In two OFD1 kindreds affected by PKD,
a frameshift mutation and a splice-site mutation were detected. In four
apparently sporadic cases, three frameshift and a missense mutation were found.
Using RT-PCR of RNA from first-trimester normal human embryos, both alternative
splice forms of mRNA (OFD1a and OFD1b) were found to be widely expressed in
organogenesis. Northern blot detected OFD1 mRNA in metanephros, brain, tongue,
and limb, all organs affected in the syndrome. A polyclonal antibody directed to 
a C-terminal OFD1a epitope detected a 120-kD protein in the metanephros and in
human renal mesenchymal cell lines. In normal human embryos, OFD1a
immunolocalized to the metanephric mesenchyme, oral mucosa, nasal and cranial
cartilage, and brain. Moreover, using normal human renal mesenchymal cell lines, 
the immunoreactive protein colocalized with gamma-tubulin, suggesting that OFD1
is associated with the centrosome. First, it is concluded that OFD1 mutations
would generally be predicted to result in unstable transcripts or nonfunctional
proteins. Second, OFD1 is expressed in human organogenesis; on the basis of the
metanephric expression pattern, the results suggest that OFD1 plays a role in
differentiation of metanephric precursor cells.


PMID: 12595504  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1611. J Periodontal Res. 2003 Feb;38(1):20-7.

Influence of interleukin-1 gene polymorphism on periodontal regeneration in
intrabony defects.

Christgau M(1), Aslanidis C, Felden A, Hiller KA, Schmitz G, Schmalz G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Operative Dentistry and Periodontology, University of
Regensburg, Regensburg, Germany. michael.christgau@klinik.uni-regensburg.de

The aim of this controlled retrospective study was to evaluate the influence of
an IL-1 gene polymorphism on the clinical and radiographic healing outcomes of
GTR therapy. The study included 47 adult periodontitis patients with 94 deep
intrabony defects treated by GTR using different membrane materials. The
following clinical parameters were recorded at baseline and 12 months after
surgery: papillary bleeding index (PBI), gingival recession (REC), probing pocket
depth (PPD), clinical attachment level (CAL), and the vertical relative
attachment gain (V-rAG). Bone changes in the defect regions due to GTR therapy
were quantitatively evaluated using digital subtraction radiography (DSR).
Polymorphisms of the IL-1A gene at position - 889 and of the IL-1B gene at
position + 3953 were analyzed by PCR. Statistical analysis was performed using
the Mann-Whitney-U and the Wilcoxon-Signed-Rank tests (alpha = 0.05). The study
comprised 19 IL-1 genotype positive (IL-1 +) patients and 28 IL-1 genotype
negative (IL-1 -) patients. Twelve months after GTR therapy, both patient groups 
revealed statistically significant PPD reductions and CAL gain [median (25/75%
percentiles)]: Delta PPD [IL-1 + : 4.0 (2.5/5.0) mm; IL-1-: 3.8 (3.0/4.9) mm],
Delta CAL [IL-1 + : 3.5 (3.0/4.8) mm; IL-1 -: 3.0 (1, 2/4, 5) mm]. V-rAG amounted
to 60.0 (47.7/78.6)% in IL-1 + patients and 53.1 (43.4/81.9)% in IL-1 - patients.
Both patient groups showed significant bone density gain in 40% (IL-1 +) and
43.6% (IL-1 -) of the initial defect area due to GTR. Neither the clinical nor
the radiographic healing parameters revealed any statistically significant
differences in the GTR healing outcome between IL-1 + and IL-1 - patients. In
conclusion, these 12-month findings indicate that the IL-1 gene polymorphism has 
no influence on the clinical and radiographic regeneration results following GTR 
therapy.


PMID: 12558933  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1612. Fa Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2000 Feb;16(1):18-20, 64.

[The application of minisatellite MS31A MVR-PCR digital coding technique in
forensic science].

[Article in Chinese]

Hou G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Forensic Science Institute of Liaoning Province, Shenyang 110032, P. R. China.

Using isotope incorporate amplification technique of special 31A, 31A-A, 31A-G
primers and alpha-32PdCTP, the minisatellite MS31A (located at D7S21 loci) was
studied. A rapid, simple, and accurate MVR-PCR technique was successfully
established. The technique can be applied in individual identification minutes
amples, such as blood stains, semen stains contaminated by vaginal fluid, hair
and bones. The sensitivity analysis revealed that this technique could detect 1
ng genoma DNA. It is also discribed about the application of the method in 40
criminal cases of rape and murder.


PMID: 12536427  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1613. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2003 Jan;69(1):220-6.

Culture-independent analysis of probiotic products by denaturing gradient gel
electrophoresis.

Temmerman R(1), Scheirlinck I, Huys G, Swings J.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Microbiology, Ghent University, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium.
Robin.Temmerman@rug.ac.be

In order to obtain functional and safe probiotic products for human consumption, 
fast and reliable quality control of these products is crucial. Currently,
analysis of most probiotics is still based on culture-dependent methods involving
the use of specific isolation media and identification of a limited number of
isolates, which makes this approach relatively insensitive, laborious, and
time-consuming. In this study, a collection of 10 probiotic products, including
four dairy products, one fruit drink, and five freeze-dried products, were
subjected to microbial analysis by using a culture-independent approach, and the 
results were compared with the results of a conventional culture-dependent
analysis. The culture-independent approach involved extraction of total bacterial
DNA directly from the product, PCR amplification of the V3 region of the 16S
ribosomal DNA, and separation of the amplicons on a denaturing gradient gel.
Digital capturing and processing of denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis
(DGGE) band patterns allowed direct identification of the amplicons at the
species level. This whole culture-independent approach can be performed in less
than 30 h. Compared with culture-dependent analysis, the DGGE approach was found 
to have a much higher sensitivity for detection of microbial strains in probiotic
products in a fast, reliable, and reproducible manner. Unfortunately, as reported
in previous studies in which the culture-dependent approach was used, a rather
high percentage of probiotic products suffered from incorrect labeling and
yielded low bacterial counts, which may decrease their probiotic potential.


PMCID: PMC152406
PMID: 12513998  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1614. J Recept Signal Transduct Res. 2002 Feb-Nov;22(1-4):283-95.

DEPD, a high resolution gene expression profiling technique capable of
identifying new drug targets in the central nervous system.

Maelicke A(1), Lübbert H.

Author information: 
(1)Biofrontera Pharmaceuticals AG, Hemmelrather Weg 201, D-51377 Leverkusen,
Germany. maelicke@biofrontera.de

Digital expression pattern display (DEPD) is an open, automated, PCR-based system
of gene expression profiling that is capable of resolving as many as 100,000
transcripts from a single brain tissue cDNA sample. It has a detection
sensitivity of better than 1 in 750,000 and it can reliably detect differences in
RNA expression levels of less than two-fold. Digital expression pattern display
presently is the most sensitive and therefore the only expression profiling
method available that is capable of monitoring, in a semi-quantitative fashion,
the expression of even the rarest of transcripts found in human brain tissue.
Biofrontera applies this proprietary technique, together with state-of-the-art
bioinformatics, for the purposes of elucidating pathology pathways of major brain
diseases, of analysing the target profiles of drugs presently applied or in
development, and of identifying novel targets for drug action.

DOI: 10.1081/RRS-120014602	 
PMID: 12503622  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1615. Mol Ecol. 2003 Jan;12(1):251-62.

Bacterial diversity in maize rhizospheres: conclusions on the use of genetic
profiles based on PCR-amplified partial small subunit rRNA genes in ecological
studies.

Schmalenberger A(1), Tebbe CC.

Author information: 
(1)BITOK, Dr Hans-Frisch-Str 1-3, 95440 Bayreuth, Germany.

A cultivation-independent approach based on polymerase chain reaction
(PCR)-amplified partial small subunit rRNA genes and genetic profiling by
single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) was used to characterize the
bacterial diversity inhabiting the rhizosphere of maize plants grown on an
agricultural field. The community structures of two cultivars, a genetically
engineered and a nonengineered variety, different herbicide regimes and soil
tillage were compared with each other at two sampling dates. SSCP-profiles were
generated with DNA from bacterial cell consortia with primers hybridizing to
evolutionarily highly conserved rRNA gene regions. On silver-stained gels, each
profile consisted of approx. 50 distinguishable bands. Similarity analyses of
patterns recorded by digital image analyses could not detect any difference
between cultivars or treatments that was greater than the variability between
replicates. A total of 54 sequences recovered from different bands were
identified and grouped into operational taxonomical units (OTUs). Surprisingly,
only five of 40 OTUs contained sequences of both samplings. Three different bands
from a profile were selected to test whether this small overlap was due to an
incomplete recovery of sequences. From a faint band, two different OTUs were
found when 12 clones were analysed, and from two strong bands 24 and 22 OTUs were
detected from a total of 26 and 36 clones, respectively. The OTUs belonged to
phylogenetically different groups of bacteria. Gene probes that were developed to
target different bands of the profiles, however, indicated in Southern blot
analyses that patterns between treatments, replicates and samplings, and even
from two different growing seasons were highly conserved. Our study demonstrates 
that community profiles can consist of more sequences than detectable by staining
and that gene probes in Southern blot can be a useful control to investigate the 
composition of microbial communities by genetic profiles.


PMID: 12492893  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1616. Ai Zheng. 2002 Mar;21(3):225-8.

[Identification of digital differential expression patterns of a novel human gene
(UBAP1) by an expressed sequence tag strategy].

[Article in Chinese]

Qian J(1), Zhang XM, Li XL, Wang JR, Li WF, Wang R, Li GY.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research Institute, Xiangya School of Medicine, Central South
University, Changsha 410078, P. R. China.

BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVES: This study was designed to identify differential
expression patterns in tumor and normal tissues of the human novel gene, UBAP1, a
putative nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) relate gene, which is located at human
chromosome 9p21-22 where loss of heterozygosity frequently occurs in NPC.
METHODS: Based on the generation of expressed sequence tags (ESTs), in the
authors' electronic Northern blot, complete cDNA of ubap1 gene was taken as a
"probe" sequence, and human EST Database search of GenBank was carried out using 
BLASTn programs. A report generated in a BLAST search of ubap1 gene sequence
against an EST database consisting of such 'pedigree' ESTs allows the inference
of the gene's tissue distribution. Furthermore, differential RT-PCR was used to
describe the expression patterns of ubap1 in partial tumor tissues.
RESULTS: Database surveys indicated ubap1 gene was not only ubiquitously
expressed in many normal tissues with various levels but also differentially
expressed in different tumor tissues, especially down-regulated in multiple
neoplastic tissues such as brain, breast, skin, colon, testis, and uterus tumor
tissues. Furthermore, differential RT-PCR analysis demonstrated expression of
ubap1 was down-regulated or absent in 7 of 11(64%) meningioma samples and 13 of
18 (72%) colorectal tumor tissues respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The authors present an EST approach that proved to be useful for the
identification of differential expression patterns of ubap1 in different tumors. 
These findings could be valuable for the investigation of the mechanism of UBAP1 
gene exhibiting differential expression, potentially involved in the progression 
of multiple cancers.


PMID: 12451983  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1617. Genome Res. 2002 Nov;12(11):1749-55.

Gene expression analysis using oligonucleotide arrays produced by maskless
photolithography.

Nuwaysir EF(1), Huang W, Albert TJ, Singh J, Nuwaysir K, Pitas A, Richmond T,
Gorski T, Berg JP, Ballin J, McCormick M, Norton J, Pollock T, Sumwalt T, Butcher
L, Porter D, Molla M, Hall C, Blattner F, Sussman MR, Wallace RL, Cerrina F,
Green RD.

Author information: 
(1)NimbleGen Systems, Inc., Madison, Wisconsin 53711, USA.

Microarrays containing 195,000 in situ synthesized oligonucleotide features have 
been created using a benchtop, maskless photolithographic instrument. This
instrument, the Maskless Array Synthesizer (MAS), uses a digital light processor 
(DLP) developed by Texas Instruments. The DLP creates the patterns of UV light
used in the light-directed synthesis of oligonucleotides. This digital mask
eliminates the need for expensive and time-consuming chromium masks. In this
report, we describe experiments in which we tested this maskless technology for
DNA synthesis on glass surfaces. Parameters examined included deprotection rates,
repetitive yields, and oligonucleotide length. Custom gene expression arrays were
manufactured and hybridized to Drosophila melanogaster and mouse samples.
Quantitative PCR was used to validate the gene expression data from the mouse
arrays.

DOI: 10.1101/gr.362402 
PMCID: PMC187555
PMID: 12421762  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1618. Cancer Res. 2002 Nov 1;62(21):5999-6005.

Identification from public data of molecular markers of adenocarcinoma
characteristic of the site of origin.

Dennis JL(1), Vass JK, Wit EC, Keith WN, Oien KA.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research UK Department of Medical Oncology, University of Glasgow,
Cancer Research UK Beatson Laboratories, Scotland, United Kingdom.

Patients presenting with metastatic adenocarcinoma of unknown origin are a common
clinical problem. Their optimal management and therapy are facilitated by
identification of the primary site, yet histologically these tumors are almost
identical. Better tumor markers are needed to enable the assignment of metastases
to likely sites of origin. In this study, hierarchical clustering of public
serial analysis of gene expression data showed that adenocarcinomas and their
metastases cluster according to their site of origin. A novel bioinformatic
approach was developed to exploit the differences between these clusters, using
diverse sources: public expression data from serial analysis of gene expression
and digital differential display; and the published literature, including
microarray studies. Sixty-one candidate tumor markers with expression predicted
to be characteristic of the site of origin were identified. Eleven genes were
tested by reverse transcription-PCR in primary adenocarcinomas from a range of
sites, and seven (64%) were site-restricted. Analysis of public gene expression
data sets is a powerful method for the identification of clinically relevant
tumor markers.


PMID: 12414618  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1619. Mech Dev. 2002 Oct;118(1-2):233-9.

Identification of Zfp393, a germ cell-specific gene encoding a novel zinc finger 
protein.

Yan W(1), Burns KH, Ma L, Matzuk MM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Baylor College of Medicine, One Baylor Plaza,
Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Using the digital differential display program of the National Center for
Biotechnology Information, we identified a contig of expression sequence tags
(ESTs) which were unique to ovary, testis, and egg libraries. The full-length
cDNA of this transcript was deduced and further confirmed by reverse
transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The cDNA encodes a novel
protein of 341 amino acids with a nuclear localization signal. The
carboxyl-terminus of the protein contains three C2H2 zinc fingers, and the
NH(2)-terminus is proline and serine-rich. Based on the conserved zinc finger
motifs, we have termed this novel protein as zinc finger protein 393 (ZFP393).
Northern blot and RT-PCR analyses revealed that Zfp393 mRNA was exclusively
expressed in testis and ovary. The expression sites were further localized by in 
situ hybridization to step 3-8 spermatids in testis and growing oocytes in ovary.
The Zfp393 gene consists of three exons spanning approximately 8 kb on the distal
part of mouse chromosome 4. The carboxyl-terminal zinc finger region is highly
homologous to several zinc finger-containing proteins, but no proteins were found
to share sequence similarity with the NH(2)-terminal region of ZFP393. Genomic
database mining and Southern blot analysis indicate that Zfp393 is a single copy 
gene. We hypothesize that ZFP393 functions as a germ cell-specific transcription 
factor that plays important roles in spermatid differentiation and oocyte
development.


PMID: 12351194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1620. Bioconjug Chem. 2002 Sep-Oct;13(5):1155-8.

Evaluation of new linkers and synthetic methods for internal modified
oligonucleotides.

Walton TA(1), Lyttle MH, Dick DJ, Cook RM.

Author information: 
(1)Biosearch Technologies, Inc., 81 Digital Drive, Novato, California 94949, USA.
Troy.Walton@colorado.edu

Several fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) oligonucleotide probes were
made with different internal linkages between the DNA and the quencher dye. In
one example, a 5'-fluorescein beta-actin-based 26-mer DNA sequence was
synthesized bearing an internal Tamra quencher. Two different versions were
prepared using either conventional C5
[N-(6-aminohexyl)-3-acrylamido]pyrimidine-modified uridine and solution-phase
Tamra active ester coupling or solid-phase addition of a Tamra amidite to a C5
[N-(6-hydroxyhexyl)-3-acrylamido]pyrimidine-modified uridine. The products were
compared in functional assays. They performed very similarly both in a
fluorescence-based melting point assay as well as in quantitative PCR. Another
set of beta-actin probes were synthesized utilizing N4 [N-2-(ethylene glycol
ethyl)-5-methyl]cytidine and solid-phase Tamra amidite addition at positions
flanking those of the uridine. These versions gave lower T(m)s than either
uridine-labeled probe and did not work as well in quantitative PCR. A control
experiment using oligonucleotides with the same modified residues but without
fluorophores attached revealed the same trend as the T(m) study of internal
Tamra-labeled probes. Experimental details for the synthesis, purification, and
testing are presented.


PMID: 12236799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1621. In Vivo. 2002 Jul-Aug;16(4):239-48.

Bioinformatics-based discovery of a novel factor with apparent specificity to
colon cancer.

De Young MP(1), Damania H, Scheurle D, Zylberberg C, Narayanan R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology and Center for Molecular Biology and Biotechnology,
Florida Atlantic University, 777 Glades Road, Boca Raton, FL 33431, USA.

In a previous study, a data mining tool called Digital Differential Display (DDD)
from the Cancer Genome Anatomy Project (CGAP) was used to predict solid tumor-
and organ-specific genes from the expressed sequence tag (EST) database. To
validate the use of bioinformatics approaches in gene discovery, one of the ESTs,
which was predicted to be colon tumor-specific, was chosen for further study.
Reverse Transcriptase-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) analysis of matched sets
of cDNAs from normal and colon tumor tissues indicated that the EST was
specifically expressed in the majority of colon tumors. Expression was also
detected in early adenomas. Among other normal tissues, EST expression was
detected only in the small intestine. The colon tumor specificity of this EST was
inferred from the lack of expression in carcinomas of the breast, lung, ovary,
pancreas and prostate. To validate the computational prediction of specificity, a
full-length cDNA encompassing the entire open reading frame was cloned and, in
view of its apparent specificity to the colon tumors, this gene was termed Colon 
Carcinoma Related Gene (CCRG). CCRG encodes a novel cysteine-rich motif and a
putative signal peptide sequence. Supernatant from COS cells transfected with the
CCRG expression vector stimulated proliferation of colon cancer cells.
Immunoreactive CCRG was also detected in the paraffin sections of colon tumor
samples. CCRG belongs to a new class of growth factors and may be important in
the diagnosis and treatment of colon cancers. Identification of CCRG using
bioinformatics approaches validates gene discovery using computational
approaches.


PMID: 12224133  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1622. J Clin Microbiol. 2002 Sep;40(9):3463-9.

Molecular typing of papillomatous digital dermatitis-associated Treponema
isolates based on analysis of 16S-23S ribosomal DNA intergenic spacer regions.

Stamm LV(1), Bergen HL, Walker RL.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Infectious Diseases, Department of Epidemiology, School of Public
Health, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 
27599-7435, USA. lstamm@email.unc.edu

Papillomatous digital dermatitis (PDD), an emerging infectious disease of cattle,
is characterized by painful, ulcerative foot lesions. The detection of high
numbers of invasive spirochetes in PDD lesions suggests an important role for
these organisms in the pathogenesis of PDD. PDD-associated spirochetes have
phenotypic characteristics consistent with members of the genus TREPONEMA:
Partial 16S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) sequence analysis of clonal isolates from
California cattle showed that they comprise three phylotypes which cluster
closely with human-associated Treponema spp. of the oral cavity (T. denticola and
T. medium/T. vincentii) or genital area (T. phagedenis). The goal of our study
was to apply 16S-23S rDNA intergenic spacer region (ISR) sequence analysis to the
molecular typing of U.S. PDD-associated Treponema isolates. This methodology has 
potentially greater discriminatory power for differentiation of closely related
bacteria than 16S rDNA analysis. We PCR amplified, cloned, and sequenced the ISRs
from six California PDD-associated Treponema isolates and, for comparative
purposes, one strain each of T. denticola, T. medium, T. vincentii, and T.
phagedenis. Two ISRs that varied in length and composition were present in all
the PDD-associated Treponema isolates and in T. denticola, T. medium, and T.
phagedenis. ISR1 contained a tRNA(Ala) gene, while ISR2 contained a tRNA(Ile)
gene. Only a single ISR (ISR1) was identified in T. vincentii. Comparative
analyses of the ISR1 and ISR2 sequences indicated that the California
PDD-associated Treponema isolates comprised three phylotypes, in agreement with
the results of 16S rDNA analysis. PCR amplification of the 16S-tRNA(Ile) region
of ISR2 permitted rapid phylotyping of California and Iowa PDD-associated
Treponema isolates based on product length polymorphisms.


PMCID: PMC130723
PMID: 12202594  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1623. Tissue Eng. 2002 Aug;8(4):551-9.

Differentiating embryonic stem cells: GAPDH, but neither HPRT nor beta-tubulin is
suitable as an internal standard for measuring RNA levels.

Murphy CL(1), Polak JM.

Author information: 
(1)Tissue Engineering Center, Imperial College School of Medicine, Chelsea and
Westminster Campus, London, United Kingdom. c.murphy@ic.ac.uk

Embryonic stem (ES) cells are pluripotent cell lines that possess virtually
unlimited self-renewal and differentiation capacity. Such characteristics make
them potentially an invaluable cell source for diverse tissue-engineering
applications. In vitro ES cell differentiation occurs spontaneously in
three-dimensional structures termed "embryoid bodies" that mimic postimplantation
embryonic tissue. HPRT, beta-tubulin, and GAPDH are commonly used as internal RNA
standards in ES cell-derived gene transcription studies so that corrected sample 
mRNA levels can be obtained for (semi) quantitative gene expression data.
However, if reliable data is to be obtained, it is essential that such
housekeeping gene expression remains constant, and this has not been demonstrated
for differentiating ES cell cultures, which represent a mixed and changing
population of cells with time in culture. Therefore, in the present study, we
tested the suitability of these housekeeping genes to act as true internal
standards for differentiating murine ES cells cultured as embryoid bodies.
PCR-amplified gene-specific products were quantified from digital images of
ethidium bromide-stained gels using a computer software package. Both HPRT and
beta-tubulin mRNA levels varied markedly in spontaneously differentiating and
growth factor-supplemented (TGF-beta) ES cell cultures (p < 0.001, ANOVA), while 
GAPDH expression remained relatively constant (p > 0.2). Our results demonstrate 
the importance of fully validating housekeeping gene expression in in vitro ES
cell gene transcription studies and suggest that GAPDH may be a suitable
candidate to act as an internal RNA standard, while both HPRT and beta-tubulin
appear to be inappropriate. Finally, we demonstrate enhanced mesodermal
differentiation of ES cell-derived cultures by treatment with TGF-beta through
significant upregulation of Brachyury T expression, with a concomitant decrease
in expression of the undifferentiated ES cell marker Oct-4.

DOI: 10.1089/107632702760240472 
PMID: 12201995  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1624. Anticancer Res. 2002 Mar-Apr;22(2B):1171-6.

Cryosurgery plus adjuvant systemic alpha2-interferon for HPV-associated lesions.

Scala M(1), Bonelli G, Gipponi M, Margarino G, Muzza A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology, Istituto Nazionale per la Ricerca sul Cancro,
Genoa, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: The authors report their experience in patients with adjuvant systemic
2-interferon with the aim of defining the effectiveness, side-effects,
indications and limitations of this treatment.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: From January 1989 to December 1996, 123 patients with
genital, anorectal and perineal HPV lesions were treated with cryosurgery;
adjuvant systemic a2-interferon was administered to 38 of them. There were 76
female and 47 male patients (median age of 29 years, range; 15-56 years).
Clinical examinations included: digital rectal examination, head and neck
examination, urethral meatus inspection and, in female patients, gynaecological
examination; they underwent colposcopylurethroscopy, proctosigmoidoscopy,
cystoscopy (in advanced disease); scraping for cytology and PCR analysis, and
biopsy for histology. Twenty-three percent of patients had more than one site
involved; upper digestive tract involvement was observed in 6.6% and 47% had
lesions larger than 6 sqcm. Twenty-five females with genital lesions had
esocervical lesions only; ten of them had SIL1, while seven a SIL3.
RESULTS: Ninety-eight out of 123 patients (79.7%) were recurrence-free after a
median follow-up of 32 months. A recurrence was observed in 25 patients: in
univariate analysis, recurrence of disease occurred more frequently in females (p
= 0.04), in patients with longer duration of symptoms (p = 0.0002),with wider
lesions (p = 0.00015), with head and neck involvement (p < 0.01), and in
HIV-positive patients (p = 0.03). In multivariate analysis, duration of symptoms 
(p = 0.005), head and neck involvement (p = 0.01), and width of lesion > 3 sq cm 
(p = 0.025) were associated with increased risk
CONCLUSION: Our findings confirm the value of cryosurgery in the treatment HPV
lesions; it is less traumatic, and gives good aesthetic and functional results;
moreover, large lesions may be treated and the depth of cryonecrosis is more
suitably adapted. Patients amenable to adjuvant treatment with a2-interferon
should have multiorgan involvement, HPV type 16 or 18, lesions >3 sqcm, long
lasting symptoms (>6 months) and presence of SIL.


PMID: 12168920  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1625. J Biol Chem. 2002 Sep 13;277(37):34375-82. Epub 2002 Jul 11.

Erythropoietin modulates calcium influx through TRPC2.

Chu X(1), Cheung JY, Barber DL, Birnbaumer L, Rothblum LI, Conrad K, Abrasonis V,
Chan YM, Stahl R, Carey DJ, Miller BA.

Author information: 
(1)Henry Hood Research Program, The Sigfried and Janet Weis Center for Research, 
Geisinger Clinic, 100 N. Academy Avenue, Danville, PA 17822, USA.

Mammalian isoforms of calcium-permeable Drosophila transient receptor potential
channels (TRPC) are involved in the sustained phase of calcium entry in
nonexcitable cells. Erythropoietin (Epo) stimulates a rise in intracellular
calcium ([Ca](i)) via activation of voltage-independent calcium channel(s) in
erythroid cells. Here, involvement of murine orthologs of classical TRPC in the
Epo-modulated increase in [Ca](i) was examined. RT-PCR of TRPC 1-6 revealed high 
expression of only TRPC2 in Epo-dependent cell lines HCD-57 and Ba/F3 Epo-R, in
which Epo stimulates a rise in [Ca](i). Using RT-PCR, Western blotting, and
immunolocalization, expression of the longest isoform of mTRPC2, clone 14, was
demonstrated in HCD-57 cells, Ba/F3 Epo-R cells, and primary murine
erythroblasts. To determine whether erythropoietin is capable of modulating
calcium influx through TRPC2, CHO cells were cotransfected with Epo-R subcloned
into pTracer-CMV and either murine TRPC2 clone 14 or TRPC6, a negative control,
into pQBI50. Successful transfection of Epo-R was verified in single cells by
detection of green fluorescent protein from pTracer-CMV using digital video
imaging, and successful transfection of TRPC was confirmed by detection of blue
fluorescent protein fused through a flexible linker to TRPC. [Ca](i) changes were
simultaneously monitored in cells loaded with Rhod-2 or Fura Red. Epo stimulation
of CHO cells cotransfected with Epo-R and TRPC2 resulted in a rise in [Ca](i)
above base line (372 +/- 71%), which was significantly greater (p < or = 0.0007) 
than that seen in cells transfected with TRPC6 or empty pQBI50 vector. This rise 
in [Ca](i) required Epo and extracellular calcium. These results identify a
calcium-permeable channel, TRPC2, in erythroid cells and demonstrate modulation
of calcium influx through this channel by erythropoietin.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M205541200 
PMID: 12167663  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1626. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2002 Jul 17;40(2):367-74.

17Beta-estradiol regulates expression of K(ATP) channels in heart-derived H9c2
cells.

Ranki HJ(1), Budas GR, Crawford RM, Davies AM, Jovanović A.

Author information: 
(1)Tayside Institute of Child Health, Ninewells Hospital & Medical School,
University of Dundee, Dundee DD1 9SY Scotland, UK.

OBJECTIVES: The main objective of the present study was to establish whether
17beta-estradiol (E2) regulates expression of cardiac adenosine
triphosphate-sensitive potassium (K(ATP)) channel.
BACKGROUND: Based on our previous studies that demonstrate gender-specific
differences in sarcolemmal K(ATP) channels, we have hypothesized that the main
estrogen, E2, may regulate expression of cardiac K(ATP) channels.
METHODS: Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using primers
specific for Kir6.2 and sulfonylurea receptor 2A (SUR2A) subunits was performed
on total ribonucleic acid (RNA) from rat embryonic heart-derived H9c2 cells.
Immunoprecipitation and Western blotting using anti-Kir6.2 and anti-SUR2A
antibodies was done on membrane fraction of H9c2 cells. Whole cell
electrophysiology and digital epifluorescent Ca(2+) imaging were performed on
living H9c2 cells. All experiments were done in cells incubated 24 h with or
without 100 nM E2.
RESULTS: The RT-PCR revealed higher levels of SUR2A, but not Kir6.2, messenger
RNA (mRNA) in E2-treated, relative to untreated, cells. Increase of the level of 
only the SUR2A subunit could change the number of sarcolemmal K(ATP) channels
only if the Kir6.2 is in excess over SUR2A. Indeed, RT-PCR analysis demonstrated 
considerably lower levels of SUR2A mRNA compared with Kir6.2 mRNA. Significantly 
higher levels of both Kir6.2 and SUR2A protein subunits were found in the
membrane fraction of E2-treated cells compared with untreated ones, and the
density of current evoked by pinacidil (100 microM), a K(ATP) channel opener, was
significantly higher in E2-treated compared with untreated cells. To test the
effect of E2 on cellular response to hypoxia-reoxygenation, we have measured
on-line, intracellular concentration of Ca(2+) in H9c2 cells exposed to
hypoxia-reoxygenation. Intracellular Ca(2+) loading induced by
hypoxia-reoxygenation was significantly decreased by treatment with E2. This
E2-mediated protection was inhibited by HMR 1098 (30 microM), but not by
5-hydroxydecanoate (50 microM).
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, this study has demonstrated that E2 increases levels 
of SUR2A subunit, stimulates K(ATP) channel formation and protects cardiac cells 
from hypoxiareoxygenation.


PMID: 12106946  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1627. Circulation. 2002 Jun 4;105(22):2660-5.

Atorvastatin inhibits hypercholesterolemia-induced cellular proliferation and
bone matrix production in the rabbit aortic valve.

Rajamannan NM(1), Subramaniam M, Springett M, Sebo TC, Niekrasz M, McConnell JP, 
Singh RJ, Stone NJ, Bonow RO, Spelsberg TC.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Northwestern University
Medical School, Chicago, Ill 60611, USA. n.rajamannan@northwestern.edu

BACKGROUND: Despite the common occurrence of aortic stenosis, the cellular causes
of the disorder are unknown, in part because of the absence of experimental
models. We hypothesized that atherosclerosis and early bone matrix expression in 
the aortic valve occurs secondary to experimental hypercholesterolemia and that
treatment with atorvastatin modifies this transformation.
METHODS AND RESULTS: To test this hypothesis, we developed an experimental
hypercholesterolemic rabbit model. New Zealand White rabbits (n=48) were studied:
group 1 (n=16), normal diet; group 2 (n=16), 1% (wt/wt) cholesterol diet; and
group 3 (n=16), 1% (wt/wt) cholesterol diet plus atorvastatin (3 mg/kg per day). 
The aortic valves were examined with hematoxylin and eosin stain, Masson
trichrome, macrophage (RAM 11), proliferation cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), and
osteopontin immunostains. Cholesterol and highly sensitive C-reactive protein
(hsCRP) serum levels were obtained by standard assays. Computerized morphometry
and digital image analysis were performed for quantifying PCNA (% area). Electron
microscopy and immunogold labeling were performed for osteopontin.
Semiquantitative RT-PCR was performed for the osteoblast bone markers [alkaline
phosphatase, osteopontin, and osteoblast lineage-specific transcription factor
(Cbfa-1)]. There was an increase in cholesterol, hsCRP, PCNA, RAM 11, and
osteopontin and osteoblast gene markers (alkaline phosphatase, osteopontin, and
Cbfa-1) in the cholesterol-fed rabbits compared with control rabbits. All markers
except hsCRP were reduced by atorvastatin.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings of increased macrophages, PCNA levels, and bone
matrix proteins in the aortic valve during experimental hypercholesterolemia
provide evidence of a proliferative atherosclerosis-like process in the aortic
valve associated with the transformation to an osteoblast-like phenotype that is 
inhibited by atorvastatin.


PMCID: PMC3951862
PMID: 12045173  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1628. Eur Radiol. 2002 Jun;12(6):1584-8. Epub 2001 Dec 20.

Dose-image optimisation in digital radiology with a direct digital detector: an
example applied to pelvic examinations.

Persliden J(1), Beckman KW, Geijer H, Andersson T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Physics, Orebro University Hospital, 701 85 Orebro,
Sweden. Jan.Persliden@orebroll.se

In diagnostic radiology increasing attention has been focused on dose reduction
while maintaining a clinically good image quality. With the use of digital
detectors balancing dose vs image quality is done differently than in film-screen
radiography, since dose and image brightness are uncoupled in digital imaging. In
this study a new direct digital detector (flat-panel detector) was used in a
dose-image optimisation of a simulated pelvic examination. X-ray images were
taken with a direct digital detector (DDD), of the pelvic of a phantom using
varying tube current (varying stochastic noise). The entrance surface dose was
measured for each image. These images were scored by two radiologists according
to EU guidelines. A dose comparison was made with an older PCR system (storage
phosphor plates). With decreasing tube current the noise in the images increased 
and the image with the lowest dose and still acceptable image quality was
identified. The results showed that the entrance surface dose using the DDD
decreased from 1.4 mGy (PCR value) to 0.48 mGy (DDD standard settings). Through
the optimisation the dose could be further decreased to 0.24 mGy while still
maintaining an acceptable image quality. A substantial dose reduction was
obtained with this new direct digital detector. This simple but efficient
optimisation approach is easily applicable to other examinations and both DDD and
storage phosphor plate detectors.

DOI: 10.1007/s00330-001-1206-0 
PMID: 12042972  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1629. J Clin Microbiol. 2002 Jun;40(6):2126-33.

Development of variable-number tandem repeat typing of Mycobacterium bovis:
comparison of results with those obtained by using existing exact tandem repeats 
and spoligotyping.

Roring S(1), Scott A, Brittain D, Walker I, Hewinson G, Neill S, Skuce R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Science, Queen's University Belfast, Belfast,
Northern Ireland. S.Roring@qub.ac.uk

Various genetic markers have been exploited for fingerprinting the Mycobacterium 
tuberculosis complex (MTBC) in molecular epidemiological studies, mainly through 
identifying restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLP). In large-scale
studies, RFLP typing has practical processing and analysis limitations;
therefore, attempts have been made to move towards PCR-based typing techniques.
Spoligotyping (spacer oligotyping) and, more recently, variable-number tandem
repeat (VNTR) typing have provided PCR-derived typing techniques. This study
describes the identification and characterization of novel VNTR loci, consisting 
of tandem repeats in the size range of 53 to 59 bp in the MTBC, and their
assessment as typing tools in 47 Mycobacterium bovis field isolates and nine MTBC
strains. Spoligotyping and the previously described set of exact tandem repeats
(ETRs) (R. Frothingham and W. A. Meeker-O'Connell, Microbiology 144:1189-1196,
1998) were also applied to the same panel of isolates. The allelic diversity of
the individual VNTR loci was calculated, and a comparison of the novel VNTRs was 
made against the results obtained by spoligotyping and the existing set of ETRs. 
Eleven unique spoligotypes were discriminated in the panel of 47 M. bovis
isolates. Greater resolution was obtained through the combination of the
most-discriminating VNTRs from both sets. Considerable discrimination was
achieved, with the 47 M. bovis isolates resolved into 14 unique profiles, while
all nine MTBC isolates were uniquely differentiated. The novel VNTR markers
described increased the discrimination possible in strain typing of M. bovis,
with the added benefit of an intuitive digital nomenclature, with the allele copy
number of the individual VNTRs providing a profile. VNTR typing was shown to be a
valuable technique with great potential for further development and application
to epidemiological tracing of tuberculosis transmissions.


PMCID: PMC130792
PMID: 12037076  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1630. FEMS Microbiol Ecol. 2002 Apr 1;40(1):29-37. doi:
10.1111/j.1574-6941.2002.tb00933.x.

Bacterial community composition in the rhizosphere of a transgenic,
herbicide-resistant maize (Zea mays) and comparison to its non-transgenic
cultivar Bosphore.

Schmalenberger A(1), Tebbe CC.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Agrarökolologie, Bundesforschungsanstalt für Landwirtschaft
(FAL), Bundesallee 50, 38116 Braunschweig, Germany.

Bacterial communities in rhizospheres of transgenic maize (Zea mays, with the
pat-gene conferring resistance to the herbicide glufosinate; syn.
l-phosphinothricin) were compared to its isogenic, non-transgenic cultivar. Total
DNA was extracted from bacterial cell consortia collected from rhizospheres of
plants grown in an agricultural field. With the use of three different primer
pairs binding to evolutionarily conserved regions of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene,
partial sequences were amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The PCR
products were subjected to single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) to
generate genetic profiles which corresponded to the diversity of the amplified
sequences. Genetic profiles of rhizospheres consisted of 40-60 distinguishable
bands depending on the chosen primer pairs, and the variability between
independent replicates was very low. Neither the genetic modification nor the use
of the herbicide Liberty (syn. Basta; active ingredient: glufosinate) affected
the SSCP profiles as investigated with digital image analysis. In contrast,
PCR-SSCP profiles of bacterial communities from rhizospheres of sugar beet, grown
in the same field as a control crop, were clearly different. A less pronounced
but significant difference was also observed with rhizosphere samples from fine
roots of maize plants collected 35 and 70 days after sowing. Sequencing of the
dominant 30 products from one typical SSCP profile generated from transgenic
maize rhizospheres indicated the presence of typical soil and rhizosphere
bacteria: half of the bands could be attributed to Proteobacteria, mainly of the 
alpha- and beta-subgroups. Other SSCP bands could be assigned to members of the
following phylogenetic groups: Cytophaga-Flavobacterium-Bacteroides,
Chlamydiales-Verrucomicrobium, Planctomyces, Holophaga and to Gram-positive
bacteria with a high G+C DNA content.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1574-6941.2002.tb00933.x 
PMID: 19709208 


1631. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2002 Apr;43(4):968-77.

Retroviral gene therapy vectors for prevention of excimer laser-induced corneal
haze.

Behrens A(1), Gordon EM, Li L, Liu PX, Chen Z, Peng H, La Bree L, Anderson WF,
Hall FL, McDonnell PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Doheny Eye Institute, Los Angeles, California,
USA.

PURPOSE: To determine the in vivo efficacy and safety of a retroviral vector
bearing an antiproliferative dominant negative mutant cyclin G1 (dnG1) construct,
when used for the prevention of corneal haze after phototherapeutic keratectomy
(PTK).
METHODS: For in vivo efficacy studies, a 6-mm-diameter, 150-microm-deep
transepithelial PTK, performed with a clinical 193-nm ArF excimer laser (VISX
Star2, Santa Clara, CA) was performed on the left eyes of 20 adult New Zealand
White rabbits. The surgically altered eyes were subsequently treated with eye
drops containing: a retroviral vector bearing a dnG1 construct (dnG1; n = 7), a
control retroviral vector (null vector) bearing only the neomycin resistance,
neo(r), gene (n = 7), or a retroviral vector bearing an antisense cyclin G1 (aG1)
construct (n = 6). The time of closure of the corneal epithelial defect was
monitored daily with fluorescein staining. Corneal haze was evaluated before
surgery and at 2, 3, and 4 weeks after surgery, with a digital imaging system.
Biodistribution studies for detection of potential vector dissemination to
nontarget organs were conducted by PCR-based assay.
RESULTS: The re-epithelialization rate was similar among treatment groups, with
complete closure of the corneal epithelial defect at 72 hours (P > 0.05).
Significant corneal haze developed in the null and aG1 vector-treated groups (P
<or= 0.05) at 3 to 4 weeks after PTK. In contrast, development of corneal haze
was inhibited in the dnG1 vector-treated group when compared with the null
vector-treated group (P < 0.05). In parallel, a dramatic reduction to complete
abrogation of abnormal extracellular matrix production was noted in the dnG1
vector-treated corneas when compared with the null and aG1 vector-treated groups.
Biodistribution studies showed no evidence of vector dissemination in neighboring
and distant organs.
CONCLUSIONS: At therapeutic doses, eye drop application of the dnG1 retroviral
vector is safe and effective in inhibiting development of corneal haze after PTK 
in rabbits.


PMID: 11923236  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1632. Clin Sci (Lond). 2002 Apr;102(4):381-6.

Aldosterone synthase (CYP11B2) expression and myocardial fibrosis in the failing 
human heart.

Satoh M(1), Nakamura M, Saitoh H, Satoh H, Akatsu T, Iwasaka J, Masuda T,
Hiramori K.

Author information: 
(1)Second Department of Internal Medicine, Iwate Medical University School of
Medicine, 19-1 Uchimaru, Morioka 020-8505, Iwate, Japan. m_satoh@imu.ncvc.go.jp

Comment in
    Clin Sci (Lond). 2002 Apr;102(4):387.

The pathway of tissue aldosterone production may exist in the heart, and may be
an important contributory factor to myocardial fibrosis and cardiac remodelling
in the failing heart. CYP11B2 (aldosterone synthase) catalyses the final step of 
aldosterone production. The aim of the present study was to determine whether
CYP11B2 and CYP11B1 (11beta-hydroxylase) are expressed in myocardial tissues, and
whether these enzymes contribute to collagen accumulation and myocardial
dysfunction in the failing human heart. Endomyocardial tissues were obtained from
23 patients with chronic heart failure (CHF) and 10 controls. CYP11B2 and CYP11B1
mRNA levels were measured by real-time quantitative reverse transcriptase-PCR.
The myocardial collagen volume fraction (CVF) was determined by digital
planimetry. CYP11B2 mRNA expression was greater in the CHF group than in the
controls (P<0.05), while CYP11B1 mRNA was barely expressed in either group. There
was a positive correlation between CYP11B2 mRNA levels and CVF (r=0.64, P=0.001).
CYP11B2 mRNA was particularly highly expressed in subgroups of CHF patients with 
a large left ventricular end-systolic diameter (>55 mm) or a low left ventricular
ejection fraction (<30%). CYP11B2 mRNA expression and CVF were lower in a CHF
subgroup treated with a combination of spironolactone and angiotensin-converting 
enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) than in a subgroup not treated with these drugs. In
conclusion, this study has shown that increased myocardial expression of CYP11B2 
mRNA is associated with increased myocardial fibrosis and with the severity of
left ventricular dysfunction in human CHF. In addition, CYP11B2 expression and
cardiac fibrosis are found to be decreased in CHF patients on drug therapy
comprising spironolactone combined with ACEIs.


PMID: 11914098  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1633. BMC Genomics. 2002;3:7. Epub 2002 Mar 6.

Digital analysis of cDNA abundance; expression profiling by means of restriction 
fragment fingerprinting.

Hof P(1), Ortmeier C, Pape K, Reitmaier B, Regenbogen J, Goppelt A, Halle JP.

Author information: 
(1)Switch Biotech AG, Fraunhoferstr, 10, 82152 Martinsried, Germany.
hof@switch-biotech.com

BACKGROUND: Gene expression profiling among different tissues is of paramount
interest in various areas of biomedical research. We have developed a novel
method (DADA, Digital Analysis of cDNA Abundance), that calculates the relative
abundance of genes in cDNA libraries.
RESULTS: DADA is based upon multiple restriction fragment length analysis of
pools of clones from cDNA libraries and the identification of gene-specific
restriction fingerprints in the resulting complex fragment mixtures. A specific
cDNA cloning vector had to be constructed that governed missing or incomplete
cDNA inserts which would generate misleading fingerprints in standard cloning
vectors. Double stranded cDNA was synthesized using an anchored oligo dT primer, 
uni-directionally inserted into the DADA vector and cDNA libraries were
constructed in E. coli. The cDNA fingerprints were generated in a PCR-free
procedure that allows for parallel plasmid preparation, labeling, restriction
digest and fragment separation of pools of 96 colonies each. This multiplexing
significantly enhanced the throughput in comparison to sequence-based methods
(e.g. EST approach). The data of the fragment mixtures were integrated into a
relational database system and queried with fingerprints experimentally produced 
by analyzing single colonies. Due to limited predictability of the position of
DNA fragments on the polyacrylamid gels of a given size, fingerprints derived
solely from cDNA sequences were not accurate enough to be used for the analysis. 
We applied DADA to the analysis of gene expression profiles in a model for
impaired wound healing (treatment of mice with dexamethasone).
CONCLUSIONS: The method proved to be capable of identifying pharmacologically
relevant target genes that had not been identified by other standard methods
routinely used to find differentially expressed genes. Due to the above mentioned
limited predictability of the fingerprints, the method was yet tested only with a
limited number of experimentally determined fingerprints and was able to detect
differences in gene expression of transcripts representing 0.05% of the total
mRNA population (e.g. medium abundant gene transcripts).


PMCID: PMC99051
PMID: 11882253 


1634. Microbiology. 2002 Feb;148(Pt 2):519-28.

Discrimination of Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex bacteria using novel
VNTR-PCR targets.

Skuce RA(1), McCorry TP, McCarroll JF, Roring SM, Scott AN, Brittain D, Hughes
SL, Hewinson RG, Neill SD.

Author information: 
(1)Veterinary Sciences Division, Department of Agriculture and Rural Development,
Stormont, Belfast BT4 3SD, UK. Robin.Skuce@dardni.gov.uk

The lack of a convenient high-resolution strain-typing method has hampered the
application of molecular epidemiology to the surveillance of bacteria of the
Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex, particularly the monitoring of strains of
Mycobacterium bovis. With the recent availability of genome sequences for strains
of the M. tuberculosis complex, novel PCR-based M. tuberculosis-typing methods
have been developed, which target the variable-number tandem repeats (VNTRs) of
minisatellite-like mycobacterial interspersed repetitive units (MIRUs), or exact 
tandem repeats (ETRs). This paper describes the identification of seven VNTR loci
in M. tuberculosis H37Rv, the copy number of which varies in other strains of the
M. tuberculosis complex. Six of these VNTRs were applied to a panel of 100
different M. bovis isolates, and their discrimination and correlation with
spoligotyping and an established set of ETRs were assessed. The number of alleles
varied from three to seven at the novel VNTR loci, which differed markedly in
their discrimination index. There was positive correlation between spoligotyping,
ETR- and VNTR-typing. VNTR-PCR discriminates well between M. bovis strains.
Thirty-three allele profiles were identified by the novel VNTRs, 22 for the ETRs 
and 29 for spoligotyping. When VNTR- and ETR-typing results were combined, a
total of 51 different profiles were identified. Digital nomenclature and
databasing were intuitive. VNTRs were located both in intergenic regions and
annotated ORFs, including PPE (novel glycine-asparigine-rich) proteins, a
proposed source of antigenic variation, where VNTRs potentially code repeating
amino acid motifs. VNTR-PCR is a valuable tool for strain typing and for the
study of the global molecular epidemiology of the M. tuberculosis complex. The
novel VNTR targets identified in this study should additionally increase the
power of this approach.

DOI: 10.1099/00221287-148-2-519 
PMID: 11832515  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1635. Am J Physiol Gastrointest Liver Physiol. 2002 Feb;282(2):G324-31.

Aquaporins in rat pancreatic interlobular ducts.

Ko SB(1), Naruse S, Kitagawa M, Ishiguro H, Furuya S, Mizuno N, Wang Y, Yoshikawa
T, Suzuki A, Shimano S, Hayakawa T.

Author information: 
(1)Internal Medicine II, Nagoya University School of Medicine, 65 Tsurumai-cho,
Showa-ku, Nagoya 466-8550, Japan.

The aquaporin (AQP) family of water channels is distributed ubiquitously in many 
epithelia and plays a fundamental role in transmembrane water transport. The aim 
of this study is to identify the water transport pathway in pancreatic duct cells
where most of the HCO-rich fluid originates. Using digital videomicroscopy, we
measured the osmotic water permeability (P(f)) of pancreatic duct epithelium by
exposing isolated rat interlobular ducts to the hypotonic solution (145 mosM). To
identify mRNA and protein of AQPs expressed in duct cells, we conducted RT-PCR
analysis and immunohistochemistry of the isolated duct and pancreas. The
calculated P(f) (160-230 microm/s) of the isolated ducts was significantly
reduced to 16-35 microm/s by 80-90% with either basolateral or luminal
applications of HgCl(2). Fluid secretion evoked by secretin was almost completely
abolished by a basolateral or luminal application of HgCl(2). A large amount of
AQP1 and small amounts of AQP5 transcripts were detected in the isolated duct
cells by RT-PCR. AQP1, but not AQP5, immunoreactivity was present in both luminal
and basolateral membranes of the interlobular duct cells. Mercury-sensitive water
channels are present in both luminal and basolateral membranes of rat pancreatic 
ducts. AQP1 of the known AQPs appears to be the main water pathway in
interlobular ducts.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpgi.00198.2001 
PMID: 11804854  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1636. Clin Cancer Res. 2002 Jan;8(1):117-23.

Dysregulation of annexin I protein expression in high-grade prostatic
intraepithelial neoplasia and prostate cancer.

Kang JS(1), Calvo BF, Maygarden SJ, Caskey LS, Mohler JL, Ornstein DK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Divisions of Urology, University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599, USA.

PURPOSE: To determine expression levels of annexin I (lipocortin I) in
patient-matched benign prostatic epithelium (BPE), high-grade prostatic
intraepithelial neoplasia (HGPIN), and prostate cancer (CaP). EXPERIMETNAL
DESIGN: Annexin I protein expression was examined with a standard
immunohistochemical protocol in 69 radical prostatectomy specimens, 45 of which
also contained HGPIN. Immunostained sections were scored visually by a
genitourinary pathologist and mean optical density was measured with digital
image analysis. Real-time fluorescence quantitative PCR was used to measure
expression levels of annexin I mRNA in patient-matched CaP and BPE from 14
snap-frozen, radical prostatectomy specimens.
RESULTS: Annexin I protein expression was reduced in 91% (41/45) of HGPIN lesions
and 94% (65/69) of invasive CaP compared with BPE in the same histological
section when assessed visually. Mean absorbance was reduced significantly (P <
0.05) in 97.7% (44/45) of HGPIN lesions and 98.5% (68/69) of CaP glands compared 
with BPE. In 79% of cases (11/14; P < 0.05), mRNA expression was reduced in CaP
as compared with patient-matched BPE. Annexin I mRNA and protein expression
levels did not correlate with Gleason grade, pathological stage, or race.
CONCLUSIONS: Down-regulation of annexin I protein expression is a common finding 
in HGPIN and CaP, suggesting that annexin I dysregulation may be an important
early event in CaP initiation. Because mRNA levels are reduced in a high
proportion of cases, one likely mechanism for annexin I dysregulation occurs at
the level of gene transcription. Results of these studies support a valuable role
for a molecular profiling approach to CaP research.


PMID: 11801547  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1637. Biotechniques. 2001 Oct;31(4):746, 748, 750, 752.

Digital image analysis for rapid quantification of total RNA and cDNA for
SMART-PCR.

Semova N(1), Semov A, Wang E.

Author information: 
(1)McGill University, Montreal, Canada.


PMID: 11680702  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1638. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2001 Nov;34(11):1405-10.

Fingerprinting of cell lines by directed amplification of minisatellite-region
DNA (DAMD).

Silva LM(1), Montes de Oca H, Diniz CR, Fortes-Dias CL.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Pesquisa e Desenvolvimento, Fundação Ezequiel Dias (FUNED), Rua
Conde Pereira Carneiro, 80, 30510-010 Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.

The development of in vitro propagation of cells has been an extraordinary
technical advance for several biological studies. The correct identification of
the cell line used, however, is crucial, as a mistaken identity or the presence
of another contaminating cell may lead to invalid and/or erroneous conclusions.
We report here the application of a DNA fingerprinting procedure (directed
amplification of minisatellite-region DNA), developed by Heath et al. [Nucleic
Acids Research (1993) 21: 5782-5785], to the characterization of cell lines.
Genomic DNA of cells in culture was extracted and amplified by PCR in the
presence of VNTR core sequences, and the amplicons were separated by agarose gel 
electrophoresis. After image capture with a digital camera, the banding profiles 
obtained were analyzed using a software (AnaGel) specially developed for the
storage and analysis of electrophoretic fingerprints. The fingerprints are useful
for construction of a data base for identification of cell lines by comparison to
reference profiles as well as comparison of similar lines from different sources 
and periodic follow-up of cells in culture.


PMID: 11668348  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1639. Clin Cancer Res. 2001 Sep;7(9):2731-8.

Prostate epithelium-derived Ets transcription factor mRNA is overexpressed in
human breast tumors and is a candidate breast tumor marker and a breast tumor
antigen.

Ghadersohi A(1), Sood AK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, New York
14263, USA.

PURPOSE: There is a need to identify novel breast tumor-associated molecules with
a potential as diagnostic/prognostic markers of breast cancer as well as targets 
of vaccine and drug discovery against this cancer.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We used a combination of digital differential display and
reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) methods to identify breast tumor-associated
cDNAs.
RESULTS: It was found that prostate epithelium-derived Ets transcription factor
(PDEF) and five other cDNAs occur at high frequency in the cDNA libraries from
normal human breast tissue and human breast tumors. In contrast, these cDNAs are 
either undetectable or present at low frequencies in the cDNA libraries from
other normal human tissues. RT-PCR expression analysis of PDEF showed it to be
overexpressed in 14 of 20 primary human breast tumors and in one metastases
tested. Also, consistent with the digital differential display data, RT-PCR
analysis of PDEF expression showed highly restricted expression in normal human
tissues. Furthermore, we show that PDEF transcript levels are 192-fold higher in 
the peripheral blood of a breast cancer patient in comparison with two normal
individuals and another breast cancer patient. In contrast to PDEF, RT-PCR
analysis of the expression of the other three cDNAs, including MYL5, Hs.44017,
and Hs.215937, showed that these cDNAs are expressed in several normal human
tissues.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that PDEF is a breast tumor-associated cDNA
and should be further evaluated for its potential as a breast tumor marker and a 
breast tumor antigen.


PMID: 11555586  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1640. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2001 Sep;38(3):906-15.

Gender-specific difference in cardiac ATP-sensitive K(+) channels.

Ranki HJ(1), Budas GR, Crawford RM, Jovanović A.

Author information: 
(1)Tayside Institute of Child Health, Ninewells Hospital & Medical School,
University of Dundee, Dundee, Scotland, United Kingdom.

OBJECTIVES: The main objective of this study was to establish whether gender
regulates expression and/or properties of cardiac ATP-sensitive K(+) (K(ATP))
channels.
BACKGROUND: Recently, evidence has been provided that differing cardiac responses
in males and females to metabolic stress may result from gender-specific
difference(s) in the efficiency of endogenous cardioprotective mechanism(s) such 
as K(ATP) channels.
METHODS: A reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using primers
specific for Kir6.2, Kir6.1 and SUR2A subunits was performed on total RNA from
guinea pig ventricular tissue. Western blotting using anti-Kir6.2 and anti-SUR2A 
antibodies was performed on cardiac membrane fraction. Whole-cell, single-channel
electrophysiology and digital epifluorescent Ca(2+) imaging were performed on
isolated guinea pig ventricular cardiomyocytes.
RESULTS: The RT-PCR revealed higher levels of SUR2A, but not Kir6.1 and Kir6.2,
messenger RNA in female tissue relative to male tissue, while much higher levels 
of both Kir6.2 and SUR2A proteins in cardiac membrane fraction in female tissue
compared with male tissue were found. In both male and female tissue, pinacidil
(100 microM), a K(ATP) channel opener, induced outward whole-cell currents. The
current density of the pinacidil-sensitive component was significantly higher in 
female tissue than it was in male tissue, while no differences in single K(ATP)
channel properties between genders were observed. Ischemia-reperfusion challenge 
induced significant intracellular Ca(2+) loading in male, but not female,
cardiomyocytes. To test the hypothesis that SUR2A expression is the limiting
factor in K(ATP) channel formation, we took different volumes of Kir6.2 and SUR2A
complementary DNA (cDNA) from the same cDNA pool and subjected them to PCR. In
order to obtain a band having 50% of the maximal intensity, a volume of SUR2a
cDNA approximately 20 times the volume of Kir6.2 cDNA was required.
CONCLUSIONS: This study has demonstrated that female tissue expresses higher
levels of functional cardiac K(ATP) channels than male tissue due to the higher
expression of the SUR2A subunit, which has an impact on cardiac response to
ischemia-reperfusion challenge.


PMID: 11527652  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1641. J Dairy Res. 2001 May;68(2):229-35.

Detection of cows' milk in goats' cheeses inferred from mitochondrial DNA
polymorphism.

Maudet C(1), Taberlet P.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Biologie des Populations d'Altitude, CNRS UMR5553, Université
Joseph Fourier, Grenoble, France. cmaudet@ujf-grenoble.fr

A new polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based method was developed to detect cows
milk in goat cheese. This method is based on mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) control
region sequence variations. DNA extractions from 150 mg of cheese were carried
out using a spin column-based method. Subsequent PCR amplifications of DNA were
performed with cow specific primers, demonstrating the ability to detect cows'
milk in a variety of cheeses. This simple approach provides high quality DNA, and
is shown to be very sensitive, with a detection limit of less than 0.1% of cows' 
milk. Analysis of an agarose gel digital image allows a rough estimation of the
percentage of cows' milk used in adulteration.


PMID: 11504387  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1642. Water Sci Technol. 2001;43(3):9-18.

Nitrification in sequencing biofilm batch reactors: lessons from molecular
approaches.

Daims H(1), Purkhold U, Bjerrum L, Arnold E, Wilderer PA, Wagner M.

Author information: 
(1)Lehrstuhl für Mikrobiologie, Technische Universität München, Am Hochanger 4,
85350 Freising, Germany.

The nitrifying microbial diversity and population structure of a sequencing
biofilm batch reactor receiving sewage with high ammonia and salt concentrations 
(SBBR 1) was analyzed by the full-cycle rRNA approach. The diversity of
ammonia-oxidizers in this reactor was additionally investigated using comparative
sequence analysis of a gene fragment of the ammonia monooxygenase (amoA), which
represents a key enzyme of all ammonia-oxidizers. Despite the "extreme"
conditions in the reactor, a surprisingly high diversity of ammonia- and
nitrite-oxidizers was observed to occur within the biofilm. In addition,
molecular evidence for the existence of novel ammonia-oxidizers is presented.
Quantification of ammonia- and nitrite-oxidizers in the biofilm by Fluorescent In
situ Hybridization (FISH) and digital image analysis revealed that
ammonia-oxidizers occurred in higher cell numbers and occupied a considerably
larger share of the total biovolume than nitrite-oxidizing bacteria. In addition,
ammonia oxidation rates per cell were calculated for different WWTPs following
the quantification of ammonia-oxidizers by competitive PCR of an amoA gene
fragment. The morphology of nitrite-oxidizing, unculturable Nitrospira-like
bacteria was studied using FISH, confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) and
three-dimensional visualization. Thereby, a complex network of microchannels and 
cavities was detected within microcolonies of Nitrospira-like bacteria.
Microautoradiography combined with FISH was applied to investigate the ability of
these organisms to use CO2 as carbon source and to take up other organic
substrates under varying conditions. Implications of the obtained results for
fundamental understanding of the microbial ecology of nitrifiers as well as for
future improvement of nutrient removal in wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) are
discussed.


PMID: 11381937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1643. Psychophysiology. 2001 May;38(3):485-9.

Beta-2 adrenergic receptor gene variations and blood pressure under stress in
normal twins.

Li GH(1), Faulhaber HD, Rosenthal M, Schuster H, Jordan J, Timmermann B, Hoehe
MR, Luft FC, Busjahn A.

Author information: 
(1)Franz Volhard Clinic and Max Delbrück Center for Molecular Medicine, Medical
Faculty of the Charité, Humboldt University of Berlin, Germany.

We tested the hypothesis that blood pressure (BP) responses to physical and
mental stress are associated with polymorphisms in the beta-2 adrenergic receptor
(AR) gene. We studied normotensive, young, monozygotic (MZ) and dizygotic (DZ)
twins. The subjects underwent automated BP measurements at the brachial and
digital arteries and were subjected to mental arithmetic and cold pressor stress.
We used allele-specific PCR to genotype four single nucleotide polymorphisms in
the beta-2 AR gene. The most functionally relevant polymorphism in the beta-2 AR 
gene, Arg16/Gly, was associated with systolic and diastolic BP under resting
conditions, during mental arithmetic, and during the cold pressor test, as well
as with the increase in diastolic BP during both forms of stress. These findings 
support a role for the beta-2 AR gene in BP regulation. They also indicate that
the beta-2 AR gene influences the level of not only resting but also
stress-related BP.


PMID: 11352137  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1644. Biotechniques. 2001 Feb;30(2):348-52, 354, 356-7.

High-throughput AFLP analysis using infrared dye-labeled primers and an automated
DNA sequencer.

Myburg AA(1), Remington DL, O'Malley DM, Sederoff RR, Whetten RW.

Author information: 
(1)Forest Biotechnology Group, Box 7247, Centennial Campus, North Carolina State 
University, Raleigh, NC 27695, USA. aamyburg@unity.ncsu.edu

Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analysis is currently the most
powerful and efficient technique for the generation of large numbers of anonymous
DNA markers in plant and animal genomes. We have developed a protocol for
high-throughput AFLP analysis that allows up to 70,000 polymorphic marker
genotype determinations per week on a single automated DNA sequencer. This
throughput is based on multiplexed PCR amplification of AFLP fragments using two 
different infrared dyelabeled primer combinations. The multiplexed AFLPs are
resolved on a two-dye, model 4200 LI-COR automated DNA sequencer, and the digital
images are scored using semi-automated scoring software specifically designed for
complex AFLP banding patterns (AFLP-Quantar). Throughput is enhanced by using
high-quality genomic DNA templates obtained by a 96-well DNA isolation procedure.


PMID: 11233604  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1645. No To Hattatsu. 2001 Jan;33(1):53-7.

[A case of bilateral coronal craniosynostosis with the P250R mutation in FGFR3
gene].

[Article in Japanese]

Mori F(1), Kuwajima K, Yamanaka K, Kondou I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Ibaraki Handicapped Children's Hospital, Mito,
Ibaraki.

Recently, the substitution of proline 250 by arginine in the fibroblast growth
factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) gene, has been identified in patients with
craniosynostosis and defines a new syndrome on a molecular basis. We report a
1-year-1-month-old female with bilateral coronal craniosynostosis who had the
P250R mutation in FGFR3 gene detected by DNA sequencing. She had brachycephaly,
temporal bossing, high and flat forehead, hypertelorism, mild proptosis, low set 
ears and no digital abnormalities. She underwent surgical repair at 7 months and 
her cosmetic problems were improved. Her development was normal up to 13 months
of age. DNA analysis from her parents showed that her father had the same
mutation. The phenotypes of the P250R mutation in the FGFR3 syndrome are variable
even within the same family, but main characteristic clinical features are
follows, 1) lateral or bilateral coronal craniosynostosis, 2) mild hand and foot 
anomalies, and 3) sensory deafness. In FGFR3 syndrome the diagnosis of P250R
mutation by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is very easy and important for early 
diagnosis and genetic counseling.


PMID: 11197897  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1646. Verh K Acad Geneeskd Belg. 2000;62(6):501-63.

[Intra- and intercellular Ca(2+)-signal transduction].

[Article in Dutch]

Himpens B(1), Vereecke J.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorium Fysiologie KU-Leuven U.Z. Gasthuisberg Herestraat 49, B 3000
Leuven.

Calcium is one of the most universal signal-transduction elements in a large
variety of cells ranging from bacteria to specialized neurons. Ca2+ acts as a
second messenger controlling such processes as secretion, cell differentiation or
signal transmission. In order to be able to execute their specific functions and 
to react in a coordinated way to stimuli, multicellular organs need a precise
orchestration of cellular functions. For this purpose cells have developed
different forms of intercellular communication (IC). In this study we
investigated a number of mechanisms of intracellular propagation and IC using
experiments with fluorescent Ca(2+)-indicators, confocal microscopy and digital
imaging techniques. In ROS 17/2.8 osteoblasts, retinal pigment epithelial cells
(RPE) and CPAE endothelial cells, a small mechanical deformation of the plasma
membrane results in a transient increase of free cytoplasmic Ca2+ concentration
([Ca2+]i). This Ca(2+)-rise starts at the site of stimulation and propagates
concentrically to neighboring cell layers. The intracellular Ca(2+)-wave in RPE
and ROS cells is caused by Ca(2+)-influx followed by Ca(2+)-release from the
intracellular stores and by intercellular propagation of the Ca(2+)-wave. The
[Ca2+]i-transient upon mechanical stimulation of LLC-PK1 epithelial cells, C6
glioma cells and MLO-Y4 osteocytes was limited and/or variable. In CPAE cells
only the intracellular release is important for evoking the Ca(2+)-transient, and
is followed by IC. IC can occur via gap junctions (GJ) consisting of
membrane-spanning proteins, connexins (Cx). It was demonstrated that IC and GJ in
RPE and ROS cells can be reversibly blocked by gap-junction inhibitors such as
heptanol or halothane. We demonstrated important differences in modulation of gap
junctional communication between these cell types. While in RPE cells stimulation
of PKC activity was able to inhibit IC, this was not the case in ROS cells. We
screened LE-RPE cDNA via PCR using specific primers for different connexins and
found no effect of high glucose solutions, which cause decreased intercellular
communication, on the Cx-isoforms expressed. Cx43 is the only Cx-isoform present 
at the protein level for which Western blot analysis revealed the presence of
different forms corresponding to different phosphorylated states. Increased
phosphorylation of Cx43 was only seen after direct PKC activation by PMA, but not
by indirect PKC activation by high glucose levels. The decreased communication by
high glucose concentrations was however associated by a decreased expression of
cellular Cx43 to about 3/4 of the level in control conditions. High glucose
concentrations therefore decrease Cx43 at the protein level via a PKC effect that
appears to be independent of the direct activation of PKC by phorbolesters.
Mechanical stimulation did not evoke intercellular Ca(2+)-waves in LLC-PK1
epithelial cells, C6 glioma cells and MLO-Y4 osteocytes. In CPAE-endothelial
cells, the contribution of gap junctions to IC following mechanical stimulation
is negligible, and modulation of gap junctions via phosphorylation or high
glucose solutions is absent. Perfusion experiments and pharmacological studies
demonstrated that IC following mechanical stimulation of these cells occurs via
release of an extracellular mediator. Our experiments provide strong evidence in 
favor of purinergic agonists as mediators, such as ATP but mainly ADP. In
conclusion we can say that cells contain a wide spectrum of mechanisms for intra-
and intercellular communication, and that widely different mechanisms can evoke
the same phenomenon of intra- and intercellular Ca(2+)-waves.


PMID: 11196579  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1647. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2001 Feb 13;98(4):1901-6.

High-resolution minisatellite-based typing as a portable approach to global
analysis of Mycobacterium tuberculosis molecular epidemiology.

Mazars E(1), Lesjean S, Banuls AL, Gilbert M, Vincent V, Gicquel B, Tibayrenc M, 
Locht C, Supply P.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Recherche et Développement, Institut National de la Santé et de
la Recherche Médicale, U447, Institut Pasteur de Lille, 1, Rue du Prof. Calmette,
F-59019 Lille Cedex, France.

The worldwide threat of tuberculosis to human health emphasizes the need to
develop novel approaches to a global epidemiological surveillance. The current
standard for Mycobacterium tuberculosis typing based on IS6110 restriction
fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) suffers from the difficulty of comparing data
between independent laboratories. Here, we propose a high-resolution typing
method based on variable number tandem repeats (VNTRs) of genetic elements named 
mycobacterial interspersed repetitive units (MIRUs) in 12 human
minisatellite-like regions of the M. tuberculosis genome. MIRU-VNTR profiles of
72 different M. tuberculosis isolates were established by PCR analysis of all 12 
loci. From 2 to 8 MIRU-VNTR alleles were identified in the 12 regions in these
strains, which corresponds to a potential of over 16 million different
combinations, yielding a resolution power close to that of IS6110-RFLP. All
epidemiologically related isolates tested were perfectly clustered by MIRU-VNTR
typing, indicating that the stability of these MIRU-VNTRs is adequate to track
outbreak episodes. The correlation between genetic relationships inferred from
MIRU-VNTR and IS6110-RFLP typing was highly significant. Compared with
IS6110-RFLP, high-resolution MIRU-VNTR typing has the considerable advantages of 
being fast, appropriate for all M. tuberculosis isolates, including strains that 
have a few IS6110 copies, and permitting easy and rapid comparison of results
from independent laboratories. This typing method opens the way to the
construction of digital global databases for molecular epidemiology studies of M.
tuberculosis.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.98.4.1901 
PMCID: PMC29354
PMID: 11172048  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1648. J Microbiol Methods. 2001 Feb 1;44(1):39-47.

Automated fluorescent in situ hybridization for the specific detection and
quantification of oral streptococci in dental plaque.

Thurnheer T(1), Gmür R, Giertsen E, Guggenheim B.

Author information: 
(1)University of Zürich, Institute of Oral Microbiology and General Immunology,
Plattenstrasse 11, 8028 Zürich, Switzerland. thurnher@zzmk.unizh.ch

Our aim was to develop a rapid fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) assay for
the identification of different oral groups of streptococci in dental plaque and 
to combine it with digital image analysis for the automated enumeration of target
cells. Cy3-labeled oligonucleotide probes specific for 16S rRNA gene sequences of
the anginosus, mitis, mutans, and salivarius groups of streptococci were
hybridized under stringent conditions with bacterial cultures or supragingival
plaque samples that had been permeabilized with lysozyme. Probe specificity was
determined with strains from 30 different species, mainly of oral origin. Results
showed that probes ANG541, MIT447, SSP001, and SAL090 with specificity for the
anginosus, mitis, mutans, and salivarius groups, respectively, the pan-reactive
streptococcal probe STR405, the S. mutans specific probe MUT590, and the S.
sobrinus specific probe SOB174 were well-suited for the identification of
cultured streptococci. Probes STR405, MIT447 and SSP001 were then successfully
applied to enumerate automatically bacteria of the recognized taxa in 144
supragingival plaque samples. On the average, total streptococci accounted for
8.2%, streptococci of the mitis and mutans groups for 3.9 and 1.7%, respectively,
of the plaques. The combined application of FISH and automated image analysis
provides an objective time-saving alternative to culture or PCR for the
enumeration of selected oral streptococci in dental plaque.


PMID: 11166098  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1649. J Clin Microbiol. 2001 Jan;39(1):69-74.

Rapid identification of laboratory contamination with Mycobacterium tuberculosis 
using variable number tandem repeat analysis.

Gascoyne-Binzi DM(1), Barlow RE, Frothingham R, Robinson G, Collyns TA, Gelletlie
R, Hawkey PM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, The General Infirmary, Leeds LS1 3EX, United
Kingdom.

Compared with solid media, broth-based mycobacterial culture systems have
increased sensitivity but also have higher false-positive rates due to
cross-contamination. Systematic strain typing is rarely undertaken because the
techniques are technically demanding and the data are difficult to organize.
Variable number tandem repeat (VNTR) analysis by PCR is rapid and reproducible.
The digital profile is easily manipulated in a database. We undertook a
retrospective study of Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates collected over an
18-month period following the introduction of the BACTEC MGIT 960 system. VNTR
allele profiles were determined with early positive broth cultures and entered
into a database with the specimen processing date and other specimen data. We
found 36 distinct VNTR profiles in cultures from 144 patients. Three common VNTR 
profiles accounted for 45% of true-positive cases. By combining VNTR results with
specimen data, we identified nine cross-contamination incidents, six of which
were previously unsuspected. These nine incidents resulted in 34 false-positive
cultures for 29 patients. False-positive cultures were identified for three
patients who had previously been culture positive for tuberculosis and were
receiving treatment. Identification of cross-contamination incidents requires
careful documentation of specimen data and good communication between clinical
and laboratory staff. Automated broth culture systems should be supplemented with
molecular analysis to identify cross-contamination events. VNTR analysis is
reproducible and provides timely results when applied to early positive broth
cultures. This method should ensure that patients are not placed on unnecessary
tuberculosis therapy or that cases are not falsely identified as treatment
failures. In addition, areas where existing procedures may be improved can be
identified.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.39.1.69-74.2001 
PMCID: PMC87682
PMID: 11136751  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1650. Nat Biotechnol. 2001 Jan;19(1):78-81.

Counting alleles reveals a connection between chromosome 18q loss and vascular
invasion.

Zhou W(1), Galizia G, Lieto E, Goodman SN, Romans KE, Kinzler KW, Vogelstein B,
Choti MA, Montgomery EA.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Genetics Laboratory, Johns Hopkins Oncology Center, Baltimore, MD
21231, USA.

Erratum in
    Nat Biotechnol 2001 Mar;19(3):277.

The analysis of loss of heterozygosity (LOH) is perhaps the most widely used
technique in cancer genetics. In primary tumors, however, the analysis of LOH is 
fraught with technical problems that have limited its reproducibility and
interpretation. In particular, tumors are mixtures of neoplastic and
nonneoplastic cells, and the DNA from the nonneoplastic cells can mask LOH. We
here describe a new experimental approach, involving two components, to overcome 
these problems. First, a form of digital PCR was employed to directly count, one 
by one, the number of each of the two alleles in tumor samples. Second,
Bayesian-type likelihood methods were used to measure the strength of the
evidence for the allele distribution being different from normal. This approach
imparts a rigorous statistical basis to LOH analyses, and should be able to
provide more reliable information than heretofore possible in LOH studies of
diverse tumor types.

DOI: 10.1038/83572 
PMID: 11135558  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1651. Mol Hum Reprod. 2001 Jan;7(1):11-20.

Identification of human candidate genes for male infertility by digital
differential display.

Olesen C(1), Hansen C, Bendsen E, Byskov AG, Schwinger E, Lopez-Pajares I, Jensen
PK, Kristoffersson U, Schubert R, Van Assche E, Wahlstroem J, Lespinasse J,
Tommerup N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, Institute of Medical Biochemistry and
Genetics, University of Copenhagen, Blegdamsvej 3, DK-2200 Copenhagen N, Denmark.

Evidence for the importance of genetic factors in male fertility is accumulating.
In the literature and the Mendelian Cytogenetics Network database, 265 cases of
infertile males with balanced reciprocal translocations have been described. The 
candidacy for infertility of 14 testis-expressed transcripts (TETs) were examined
by comparing their chromosomal mapping position to the position of balanced
reciprocal translocation breakpoints found in the 265 infertile males. The 14
TETs were selected by using digital differential display (electronic subtraction)
to search for apparently testis-specific transcripts in the TIGR database. The
testis specificity of the 14 TETs was further examined by reverse
transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) on adult and fetal tissues
showing that four TETs (TET1 to TET4) were testis-expressed only, six TETs (TET5 
to TET10) appeared to be differentially expressed and the remaining four TETs
(TET11 to TET14) were ubiquitously expressed. Interestingly, the two tesis
expressed-only transcripts, TET1 and TET2, mapped to chromosomal regions where
seven and six translocation breakpoints have been reported in infertile males
respectively. Furthermore, one ubiquitously, but predominantly testis-expressed, 
transcript, TET11, mapped to 1p32-33, where 13 translocation breakpoints have
been found in infertile males. Interestingly, the mouse mutation, skeletal
fusions with sterility, sks, maps to the syntenic region in the mouse genome.
Another transcript, TET7, was the human homologue of rat Tpx-1, which functions
in the specific interaction of spermatogenic cells with Sertoli cells. TPX-1 maps
to 6p21 where three cases of chromosomal breakpoints in infertile males have been
reported. Finally, TET8 was a novel transcript which in the fetal stage is
testis-specific, but in the adult is expressed in multiple tissues, including
testis. We named this novel transcript fetal and adult testis-expressed
transcript (FATE).


PMID: 11134355  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1652. Am J Vet Res. 2000 Dec;61(12):1602-8.

Characterization of cultured smooth muscle cells obtained from the palmar digital
arteries of horses.

Rodgerson DH(1), Belknap JK, Fontaine GL, Kroll DL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Large Animal Surgery and Medicine, Auburn University, AL 36849, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: To develop methods to isolate, culture, and characterize smooth muscle
cells (SMC) from equine palmar digital arteries.
SAMPLE POPULATION: Segments of the medial or lateral palmar digital arteries from
the forelimbs of 6 horses.
PROCEDURE: To obtain smooth muscle explants, arterial segments were incised
longitudinally. The tunica intima was gently scraped from the underlying tunica
media, and explants were obtained from the tunica media. Approximately 18 to 24
explants were obtained from each palmar digital arterial segment. A
substrate-attached technique was used to initiate primary culture of SMCCultured 
cells were identified as SMC, using light microscopy, electron microscopy,
reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and northern blot
analysis. The replication index and serum dependence of equine SMC in culture was
characterized by use of bromodeoxyuridine.
RESULTS: The SMC of equine palmar digital arteries were successfully cultured, as
confirmed by RT-PCR and northern blot analysis techniques for smooth muscle
alpha-actin and detection of SMC-specific organelles during electron microscopy. 
When characterized by light and electron microscopy, SMC were found to have
undergone phenotypic modulation to a more synthetic phenotype in culture while
retaining characteristics of SMC.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Culture of SMC from equine palmar digital
arteries via an explant protocol is a viable technique for studying vascular
biological mechanisms in horses. In vitro studies of SMC may aid investigators in
determining cellular mechanisms involved in disease processes such as laminitis.


PMID: 11131606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1653. BJU Int. 2000 Dec;86(9):1023-7.

Detecting circulating prostate cells in patients with clinically localized
prostate cancer: clinical implications for molecular staging.

Llanes L(1), Páez A, Ferruelo A, Luján M, Romero I, Berenguer A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Hospital Universitario de Getafe, Madrid, Spain.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the clinical utility of using the reverse
transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) to detect prostate-specific
antigen (PSA) mRNA in peripheral blood samples from patients with prostate
cancer, as a predictor of extraprostatic disease, and to assess any correlations 
with known predictive markers of this condition.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Immediately before radical prostatectomy, peripheral blood 
samples were taken from 25 men with clinically localized prostate cancer and
analysed for PSA mRNA using RT-PCR (in 'hot-start' conditions and confirmed using
ClaI restriction enzyme). The relationships between PSA mRNA positivity,
pathological and clinical features were analysed; PSA mRNA positivity, PSA level 
and biopsy Gleason score were then compared as predictors of extraprostatic
disease.
RESULTS: There was no relationship between PSA mRNA positivity and pathological
stage (pT2 or pT3), and no association between PSA mRNA positivity and serum PSA 
level, PSA density, the findings on a digital rectal examination or transrectal
ultrasonography, and perineural invasion in the prostatic biopsy. However, there 
was a significant correlation between the Gleason score of the preoperative
biopsy and PSA mRNA positivity. The best predictors of extraprostatic disease
were the biopsy Gleason score and the PSA level.
CONCLUSION: There was no significant advantage in using the RT-PCR assay of PSA
mRNA before surgery to stage prostate cancer and to discriminate between
organ-confined and extraprostatic neoplasms.


PMID: 11119095  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1654. Nucleosides Nucleotides Nucleic Acids. 2000 Aug;19(8):1337-53.

DNA recognition by quinoline antibiotics: use of base-modified DNA molecules to
investigate determinants of sequence-specific binding of luzopeptin.

Bailly C(1), Crow S, Minnock A, Waring MJ.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U-524 et Laboratoire de Pharmacologie Antitumorale du Centre Oscar
Lambret, IRCL, Lille, France.

The luzopeptin antibiotics contain a cyclic decadepsipeptide to which are
attached two quinoline chromophores that bisintercalate into DNA. Although they
bind DNA less tightly than the structurally related quinoxaline antibiotics
echinomycin and triostin A, the molecular basis of their interaction remains
unclear. We have used the PCR in conjunction with novel nucleotides to create
specifically modified DNA for footprinting experiments. In order to study the
influence that removal, addition or relocation of the guanine 2-amino group,
which normally identifies G.C base pairs from the minor groove, has on the
interaction of luzopeptin antibiotics with DNA. The presence of a purine 2-amino 
group is not strictly required for binding of luzopeptin to DNA, but the exact
location of this group can alter the position of preferred drug binding sites. It
is, however, not the sole determinant of nucleotide sequence recognition in
luzopeptin-DNA interaction. Nor can the selectivity of luzopeptin be attributed
to the quinoline chromophores, suggesting that an analogue mode of DNA
recognition may be operative. This is in contrast to the digital readout that
seems to predominate with the quinoxaline antibiotics.

DOI: 10.1080/15257770008033056 
PMID: 11097063  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1655. Anal Biochem. 2000 Dec 1;287(1):144-52.

miniSAGE: gene expression profiling using serial analysis of gene expression from
1 microg total RNA.

Ye SQ(1), Zhang LQ, Zheng F, Virgil D, Kwiterovich PO.

Author information: 
(1)Lipid Research Atherosclerosis Division, Department of Pediatrics, CMSC 604,
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 600 North Wolfe Street, Baltimore,
Maryland 21287, USA. syq@mail.jhmi.edu

The use of serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) to determine gene expression
profiles is increasing because the technique can provide absolute transcript
numbers in a digital format and identify new genes. We developed a miniSAGE
technique, which uses only 1 microg total RNA and reduces the amount of the
starting material by 250- to 500-fold. Unlike the other modified SAGE methods,
the miniSAGE technique does not require the additional PCR amplifications. The
additional PCR amplifications potentially introduce bias and compromise the
quantitative aspects of the SAGE method. Three key modifications in the miniSAGE 
technique are: (i) using the phase lock gel (PLG, Eppendorf) to increase the
recovery and the purity of DNA material after each phenol extraction step; (ii)
reducing the amount of linkers in the ligation, thereby minimizing their
interference with SAGE ditag amplification and increasing the SAGE ditag yield;
and (iii) employing the mRNA capture kit (Boehringer Mannheim) to allow the first
five steps: mRNA isolation, cDNA synthesis, enzyme cleavage of cDNA, binding of
the cleaved biotin-cDNA to the streptavidin-magnetic beads, ligating linkers to
the bound cDNA, and the release of cDNA tags to occur within one tube to
significantly reduce the loss of material between successive steps. Two
fibroblast SAGE libraries have been successfully prepared. The preliminary
analysis of 3838 tags from one library demonstrated a typical fibroblast gene
expression pattern. This miniSAGE technique will permit a broader application of 
SAGE.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/abio.2000.4846 
PMID: 11078594  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1656. Genome Res. 2000 Aug;10(8):1230-40.

Tissue gene expression analysis using arrayed normalized cDNA libraries.

Eickhoff H(1), Schuchhardt J, Ivanov I, Meier-Ewert S, O'Brien J, Malik A, Tandon
N, Wolski EW, Rohlfs E, Nyarsik L, Reinhardt R, Nietfeld W, Lehrach H.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Molekulare Genetik, 14195 Berlin, Germany.
eickhoff@molgen.mpg.de

We have used oligonucleotide-fingerprinting data on 60,000 cDNA clones from two
different mouse embryonic stages to establish a normalized cDNA clone set. The
normalized set of 5,376 clones represents different clusters and therefore, in
almost all cases, different genes. The inserts of the cDNA clones were amplified 
by PCR and spotted on glass slides. The resulting arrays were hybridized with
mRNA probes prepared from six different adult mouse tissues. Expression profiles 
were analyzed by hierarchical clustering techniques. We have chosen radioactive
detection because it combines robustness with sensitivity and allows the
comparison of multiple normalized experiments. Sensitive detection combined with 
highly effective clustering algorithms allowed the identification of
tissue-specific expression profiles and the detection of genes specifically
expressed in the tissues investigated. The obtained results are publicly
available (http://www.rzpd.de) and can be used by other researchers as a digital 
expression reference.


PMCID: PMC310898
PMID: 10958641  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1657. Cancer Res. 2000 Aug 1;60(15):4037-43.

Cancer gene discovery using digital differential display.

Scheurle D(1), DeYoung MP, Binninger DM, Page H, Jahanzeb M, Narayanan R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton 33431, USA.

The Cancer Gene Anatomy Project database of the National Cancer Institute has
thousands of expressed sequences, both known and novel, in the form of expressed 
sequence tags (ESTs). These ESTs, derived from diverse normal and tumor cDNA
libraries, offer an attractive starting point for cancer gene discovery. Using a 
data-mining tool called Digital Differential Display (DDD) from the Cancer Gene
Anatomy Project database, ESTs from six different solid tumor types (breast,
colon, lung, ovary, pancreas, and prostate) were analyzed for differential
expression. An electronic expression profile and chromosomal map position of
these hits were generated from the Unigene database. The hits were categorized
into major classes of genes including ribosomal proteins, enzymes, cell surface
molecules, secretory proteins, adhesion molecules, and immunoglobulins and were
found to be differentially expressed in these tumorderived libraries. Genes known
to be up-regulated in prostate, breast, and pancreatic carcinomas were discovered
by DDD, demonstrating the utility of this technique. Two hundred known genes and 
500 novel sequences were discovered to be differentially expressed in these
select tumor-derived libraries. Test genes were validated for expression
specificity by reverse transcription-PCR, providing a proof of concept for gene
discovery by DDD. A comprehensive database of hits can be accessed at http://
www.fau.edu/cmbb/publications/cancergenes. htm. This solid tumor DDD database
should facilitate target identification for cancer diagnostics and therapeutics.


PMID: 10945605  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1658. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2000 Aug;41(9):2633-41.

Characterization of muscarinic receptors in human lens cells by pharmacologic and
molecular techniques.

Collison DJ(1), Coleman RA, James RS, Carey J, Duncan G.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of East Anglia, Norwich, United
Kingdom.

PURPOSE: Activation of muscarinic receptors has been implicated in an increased
risk of cataract after anticholinesterase treatment for glaucoma. The purpose of 
the present study was to determine the acetylcholine muscarinic receptor
subtype(s) present in native human lens epithelial cells (NHLECs) and a human
lens cell line, HLE-B3, and to compare the distribution in other ocular cells.
METHODS: Human lens cells were perfused with artificial aqueous humor (35 degrees
C) after fura-2 incorporation, and calcium levels were measured using a
fluorometric single-cell digital imaging system. Acetylcholine was the primary
muscarinic agonist, and the receptor subtypes were elucidated by determining the 
relative effectiveness of pirenzepine and AF-DX 384 in blocking the
agonist-induced response. The levels of expression of mRNA for the receptor
subtypes M1 through M5 were determined by quantitative reverse
transcription-polymerase chain reaction (QRT-PCR) using a sequence detection
system (ABI Prism 7700; Perkin-Elmer, Foster City, CA). This was performed using 
total RNA extracted from native lens, retina, iris, and sclera and also cultured 
lens cells.
RESULTS: Acetylcholine induced a similar concentration-dependent increase in
peak-amplitude cytosolic calcium in the range 100 nM to 100 microM in both native
and HLE-B3 cells. However, the kinetics of the response waveforms to 30-second
pulses of acetylcholine were different in the two cell types. At higher
concentrations (> 1 microM), a second phase appeared in the HLE-B3 cells that was
absent in the NHLEC response. The 50% inhibitory concentration (IC50) values for 
blockade of a 1 microM acetylcholine response by pirenzepine and AF-DX 384 were
30 nM and 230 nM, respectively, for NHLECs, and 300 nM and 92 nM, respectively,
for HLE-B3 cells. The QRT-PCR data showed that more than 90% of the total
muscarinic receptor mRNA from NHLEC was of M1 origin. In the HLE-B3 cells,
however, more than 95% of the mRNA was of M3 origin. mRNA for M3 was also in
greatest abundance in other eye tissues, although there was a significant
contribution from M1 in iris and sclera.
CONCLUSIONS: Both NHLECs and HLE-B3 cells express muscarinic receptors that
produce significant changes in cytosolic calcium in response to acetylcholine.
Both pharmacologic and QRT-PCR evidence shows that whereas the M1 subtype
predominates in NHLECs, M3 is the major contributor in HLE-B3 cells. In all other
eye tissues, M3 appears to be the major contributor. These data should be taken
into account when choosing particular models to investigate cataract mechanisms
and also when designing muscarinic agonists to treat glaucoma.


PMID: 10937576  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1659. J Biochem Biophys Methods. 2000 Jul 10;44(1-2):59-72.

Quantitative microscopy after fluorescence in situ hybridization - a comparison
between repeat-depleted and non-depleted DNA probes.

Rauch J(1), Wolf D, Craig JM, Hausmann M, Cremer C.

Author information: 
(1)Applied Optics and Information Processing, Kirchhoff Institute of Physics,
University of Heidelberg, Albert-Ueberle-Strasse 3-5, D-69120, Heidelberg,
Germany.

Complex probes used in fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) usually contain 
repetitive DNA sequences. For chromosome painting, in situ suppression of these
repetitive DNA sequences has been well established. Standard painting protocols
require large amounts of an unlabeled 'blocking agent', for instance Cot-1 DNA.
Recently, it has become possible to remove repetitive DNA sequences from library 
probes by means of magnetic purification and affinity PCR. Such a 'repeat
depleted library probe' was hybridized to the q-arm of chromosome 15 of human
metaphase spreads and interphase cell nuclei without any preannealing by Cot-1
DNA. Apart from this, 'standard' FISH conditions were used. After in situ
hybridization, microscope images were obtained comparable to those achieved with 
the #15q library probe prior to depletion. The images were recorded by a true
color CCD camera. By digital image analysis using 'line scan' and 'area scan'
procedures, the painting efficiency expressed in terms of relative fluorescence
signal intensity was quantitatively evaluated. The painting efficiency using the 
repeat depleted probe of chromosome 15q was compared to the painting efficiency
after standard FISH. The results indicate that both types of probes are
compatible to a high FISH efficiency. Using equivalent probe concentrations, no
significant differences were found for FISH with standard painting probes and
repeat depleted painting probes.


PMID: 10889276  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1660. Respir Med. 2000 May;94(5):475-81.

Circulating bronchoepithelial cells expressing mRNA for surfactant protein A in
patients with pulmonary fibrosis.

Dohmoto K(1), Hojo S, Fujita J, Kamei T, Ueda Y, Miyawaki H, Bandoh S, Okada H,
Takahara J.

Author information: 
(1)First Department of Internal Medicine, Kagawa Medical University, Kita-gun,
Japan.

There are several unsolved clinical findings in patients with idiopathic
pulmonary fibrosis (IPF); (i) predominance of fibrosis in the lower lung fields, 
(ii) digital clubbing, and (iii) patchy distribution of pulmonary fibrosis. To
explain these unsolved problems, we hypothesized that regenerated or premature
bronchoepithelial cells may circulate in the blood in patients with IPF. To prove
this, we performed the reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR)
for cytokeratin 19 (CK19) and pulmonary surfactant protein A (SPA) in peripheral 
blood in patients with IPF and pulmonary fibrosis associated with collagen
vascular disorders. In addition, 20 patients with chronic pulmonary emphysema as 
a disease control and 19 normal volunteers were also evaluated for the existence 
of circulating bronchoepithelial cells. RT-PCR analysis showed that CK19 was
expressed in 12 of 38 blood samples (31.6%) of IPF and pulmonary fibrosis
associated with collagen vascular disorders, seven of 20 (35.0%) blood samples of
chronic pulmonary emphysema, and four of 19 (21.1%) blood samples of normal
volunteers. mRNA for SPA was positive in eight of 38 (21.1%) blood samples of
IPF. In contrast, SPA expressing cells were not detected in any blood samples
obtained from patients with chronic pulmonary emphysema or normal volunteers.
This evidence suggests that there were some circulating bronchoepithelial cells
expressing mRNA for SPA in peripheral blood of patients with IPF and pulmonary
fibrosis associated with collagen vascular disorders.

DOI: 10.1053/rmed.1999.0765 
PMID: 10868711  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1661. Br J Dermatol. 2000 Jun;142(6):1148-53.

Mucosal human papillomavirus types in squamous cell carcinomas of the uterine
cervix and subsequently on fingers.

Forslund O(1), Nordin P, Hansson BG.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Virology Section, Department of Medical Microbiology, Lund
University, University Hospital, SE-205 02 Malmö, Sweden.

Human papillomavirus (HPV), especially type 16, is causally involved in the
pathogenesis of anogenital cancer. There is an increasing number of reports of
HPV infections in squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the fingers. A search of the
Swedish cancer register covering the period 1958-94 inclusive for women with a
history of genital and upper extremity SCC revealed 63 cases. Archival material
from both cervical and cutaneous lesions was traced and analysed for the presence
of HPV DNA in 32 of these patients. A newly developed 'neighbour primer'
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for HPV 16 DNA, aimed at overcoming the obstacle 
of cross-linked target DNA, was shown to be superior to conventional general and 
type-specific HPV PCR tests. HPV DNA was significantly more frequently found in
digital tumours than in tumours at other cutaneous sites of the upper extremities
[67% (10 of 15) vs. 7% (three of 43); P < 0.001]. Among 13 patients with a
history of both cervical and finger SCC, HPV 16 was found in cervical samples
from seven patients. From five of these seven patients, HPV 16 was also present
in the corresponding finger lesions. The results support the hypothesis of a
possible transmission of patients' genital HPV infections to fingers.


PMID: 10848738  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1662. Zhonghua Yi Xue Yi Chuan Xue Za Zhi. 2000 Jun;17(3):192-5.

Study on DNA polymorphism at D1S8 locus in Hebei Han population.

[Article in Chinese]

Guo X(1), Cong B, Gu Z, Zuo M, Zhang G, Yao Y, Peng Y, Wang J, You H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Forensic Medicine, Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang,
Hebei, 050017 P. R. China. Guocarol@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To study the polymorphism at D1S8 locus and to provide basic
information for the construction of DNA fingerprint database and the application 
in forensic medicine.
METHODS: Minisatellite variant repeat-polymerase chain reaction (MVR-PCR) and
polyacrylamide gradient gel electrophoresis followed by silver staining were used
to detect the variant repeat sequences at D1S8 locus of 240 unrelated individuals
in Hebei Han population, and digital codes were obtained.
RESULTS: Each individual obtained about 30 digital codes, in which none of two
unrelated individuals had the same code. The probability of identity of 30
digital codes was 3.55x10(-11). The percentages of three repeat units, a-type,
t-type and o-type were 54.77%, 42.54% and 2.69% respectively. The heterozygosity 
(H) was 0.9837. The excluding probability of paternity(EPP) and polymorphism
information content(PIC) were 0.9669 and 0.9833 respectively.
CONCLUSION: Because of its high polymorphic nature, D1S8 locus is a valuable
marker for forensic identification and paternity testing.


PMID: 10837523  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1663. Vet Microbiol. 2000 Jun 1;74(3):249-57.

A spirochete isolated from a case of severe virulent ovine foot disease is
closely related to a Treponeme isolated from human periodontitis and bovine
digital dermatitis.

Collighan RJ(1), Naylor RD, Martin PK, Cooley BA, Buller N, Woodward MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Veterinary Laboratories Agency, Woodham Lane, New Haw, Addlestone, UK.

The isolation of spirochetes from severe ovine foot disease has been reported
recently by our research group. In this study we describe the preliminary
classification of this spirochete based on nucleotide sequence analysis of the
PCR-amplified 16S rRNA gene. Phylogenetic analysis of this sequence in comparison
with other previously reported 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that the spirochete
belonged to the treponemal phylotype Treponema vincentii which has been
associated with bovine digital dermatitis and human periodontal disease. Further 
work is required to define the common virulence determinants of these closely
related treponemes in the aetiology of these tissue destructive diseases.


PMID: 10808093  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1664. Biol Reprod. 2000 Feb;62(2):334-9.

Expression of parathyroid hormone-related peptide (PTH-rp) and its receptorin the
porcine ovary: regulation by transforming growth factor-beta and possible
paracrine effects of granulosa cell PTH-rp secretion on theca cells.

Garmey JC(1), Schnorr JA, Bruns ME, Bruns DE, Seaner RM, Ferguson II JE, Luking
Jayes FC, Aguirre C, Veldhuis JD.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Department of Internal Medicine, University of
Virginia Health Sciences Center, Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA.
jcg8p@virginia.edu

Parathyroid hormone-related peptide (PTH-rp) and the PTH-rp receptor are
expressed in certain cancers as well as in many normal tissues. To evaluate the
expression of this Ca(2+)-regulating hormone and its receptor in porcine ovary,
we isolated partial cDNAs encoding homologous PTH-rp and PTH-rp receptor using
reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The cDNA encoding
PTH-rp (419 base pairs [bp]) was 92% and 87% homologous to human and rat
sequences, respectively, while the PTH-rp receptor clone (167 bp) was 94% and 91%
identical to the human and rat genes. Qualitative estimates of PTH-rp mRNA by
RT-PCR indicated that the PTH-rp gene is expressed at high levels in the corpus
luteum but is undetectable in granulosa and theca cells isolated from small (1-5 
mm) and medium-sized (5-8 mm) antral follicles. In contrast, PTH-rp receptor
transcripts were most abundant in corpora lutea and theca cells, and least
abundant (albeit detectable) in granulosa cells. Regulation of PTH-rp protein
production was assessed in serum-free monolayer cultures of porcine granulosa
cells. Transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 (100 ng/ml) increased PTH-rp
concentrations (assayed by two-site immunoradiometric assay of culture media) as 
well as corresponding PTH-rp mRNA accumulation (assessed by RT-PCR) in a
time-dependent manner, with maximal responses of 3- to 5-fold at 96 h. TGF-beta1 
dose-response studies revealed an ED(50) of 0. 24-0.38 ng/ml with a maximal
effect at 30 ng/ml. Other growth factors and hormones, including insulin,
insulin-like growth factor (type I), epidermal growth factor, FSH, estradiol, and
interleukin-1, failed to alter PTH-rp secretion. Biological effects of PTH-rp
were evident in purified porcine theca cells. Using the Ca(2+)-sensitive
fluorescent indicator dye, fura-2, and digital imaging videomicroscopy, we found 
that PTH-rp (1 microM) stimulated intracellular free calcium ion concentrations
([Ca(2+)](i)) in single porcine theca cells. The [Ca(2+)](i) elevation was
characterized by a slow and prolonged rise. After PTH-rp stimulation, theca cells
maintained responsiveness to hormone stimulation by LH, which elicited a typical 
theca cell [Ca(2+)](i) response. Our results allow a hypothesis of a paracrine
intrafollicular signaling system involving interaction between theca cell-derived
TGF-beta and granulosa cell-derived PTH-rp, with feedback by PTH-rp on theca
cells. Alternatively, expression of mRNAs encoding PTH-rp and its receptor in
corpora lutea suggests that this peptide may play a role in luteal cell function.
The precise role of this intraovarian PTH-rp system will require further study.


PMID: 10642570  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1665. Vopr Med Khim. 1998 Nov-Dec;44(6):527-36.

[The use of computer morphodensitometry in modern molecular diagnostic methods].

[Article in Russian]

Kogan EM(1), Zhukotskiĭ AV, Govorun VM, Momynaliev KT, Potapov IA, Iakubova NI,
Ialpaev VV.

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute of Physicist-Chemical Medicine, Moscow.

Technologies based on the use of polymerase chain reaction, in particular IS PCR 
are widely used now. However, wide introduction in clinico-laboratory practice of
these methods requires: increase of reliability of the accepted decisions,
improvement of the image for revealing more fine distinctions of objects,
increase of quality of the obtained information, automated registration of
results of the analysis. The application of original digital image analysis,
adapted to specificity of biomedical objects--morphodensitometry--allows to solve
successfully the following tasks: to optimisze conditions of IS PCR realisation
on the basis of use of quantitative opticogeometrical parameters, quantitatively 
and subpopulistically to characterize a degree of infected cells with viral
infection, and also nucleuses of cells, that is especially actual for
introduction of molecular-genetic methods in clinico diagnostic practice and,
automatically to register results of the analysis. Thus, employment of
morphodensitometry can be very important in genediagnostic and also gene therapy.


PMID: 10599138  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1666. Arthritis Rheum. 1999 Sep;42(9):2002-6.

Hypertrophic osteoarthropathy can indicate recurrence of Whipple's disease.

Marie I(1), Levesque H, Levade MH, Cailleux N, Lecomte F, François A, Métayer J, 
Lerebours E, Courtois H.

Author information: 
(1)Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Rouen-Boisguillaume, Rouen, France.

We report the case of a patient with Whipple's disease (WD) who developed
hypertrophic osteoarthropathy (HOA) characterized by digital clubbing,
periostosis of the tubular bones, and polysynovitis. The HOA disclosed the
recurrence of the patient's WD, since polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis
clearly demonstrated the presence of Tropheryma whippelii in the synovial fluid
from the patient's left knee. Initiation of appropriate antibiotic therapy
resulted in complete healing of all clinical rheumatologic manifestations within 
2 months and in disappearance of radiographic bone changes at 7-month followup.
We suggest that HOA be included within the spectrum of rheumatologic
manifestations of WD, and that an evaluation for WD should be considered in
patients, especially middle-aged men, presenting with HOA even without
gastrointestinal symptoms. PCR analysis may be useful in accurate diagnosis and
management of early WD with unusual clinical manifestations, and may contribute
to decreased morbidity and mortality.

DOI: 10.1002/1529-0131(199909)42:9<2002::AID-ANR29>3.0.CO;2-C 
PMID: 10513818  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1667. Prog Urol. 1999 Jun;9(3):555-61.

[Columbia University experience of detection of circulating cells by RT-PCR PSA
in prostate cancer as a predictive factor of stage and biochemical recurrence].

[Article in French]

de la Taille A(1), Olsson CA, Buttyan R, Bagiella E, Cao Y, Burchardt T, Katz AE.

Author information: 
(1)Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, New York, NY 10032, USA.

OBJECTIVES: The Columbia University experience of RT-PCR PSA as a predictive
factor of stage and biochemical recurrence is reviewed by trying to explain its
differences.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: 319 patients were included between January 1993 and March
1998. Radical prostatectomy was performed in all patients by the same surgeon.
The RT-PCR protocol has been previously described (Katz et al., Urology, 1994).
Biochemical recurrence was defined by a PSA greater than or equal to 0.2 ng/ml.
RESULTS: Histological examination diagnosed 218 pT2 and 101 pT3 tumours.
Thirty-four of the 218 pT2 patients (16%) had a positive RT-PCR versus 51 of the 
101 pT3 patients (51%, p < 0.001). Analysis of Kaplan-Meier curves showed an 84% 
recurrence-free survival when RT-PER was negative versus 47% when RT-PCR was
positive (Log-rank test, p = 0.0002). Multivariate analysis showed that
independent predictive factors of biochemical recurrence were stage (p = 0.004), 
Gleason score estimated on the operative specimen (p = 0.010) and serum PSA (p = 
0.047); RT-PCR (p = 0.075), strongly correlated with stage, was not an
independent predictive factor. By exclusively comparing preoperative parameters, 
PSA (p = 0.004) and RT-PCR (p = 0.006) were found to be independent predictive
factors compared to digital rectal examination (p = 0.371) and Gleason score on
biopsies (p = 0.076).
CONCLUSION: In this institution, RT-PCR PSA is a predictive parameter of stage
and biochemical recurrence. No consensus has yet been reached in the literature
concerning the reference protocol, as each team has developed its own RT-PCR
technique applied to its own patient population. Comparison of results is
therefore difficult.


PMID: 10434336  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1668. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1999 Aug 3;96(16):9236-41.

Digital PCR.

Vogelstein B(1), Kinzler KW.

Author information: 
(1)The Howard Hughes Medical Institute and the Johns Hopkins Oncology Center,
Baltimore, MD 21231, USA. vogelbe@welchlink.welch.jhu.edu

The identification of predefined mutations expected to be present in a minor
fraction of a cell population is important for a variety of basic research and
clinical applications. Here, we describe an approach for transforming the
exponential, analog nature of the PCR into a linear, digital signal suitable for 
this purpose. Single molecules are isolated by dilution and individually
amplified by PCR; each product is then analyzed separately for the presence of
mutations by using fluorescent probes. The feasibility of the approach is
demonstrated through the detection of a mutant ras oncogene in the stool of
patients with colorectal cancer. The process provides a reliable and quantitative
measure of the proportion of variant sequences within a DNA sample.


PMCID: PMC17763
PMID: 10430926  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1669. Int J Cancer. 1999 Aug 20;84(4):360-4.

Blood-based reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction assays for prostatic 
specific antigen: long term follow-up confirms the potential utility of this
assay in identifying patients more likely to have biochemical recurrence (rising 
PSA) following radical prostatectomy.

de la Taille A(1), Olsson CA, Buttyan R, Benson MC, Bagiella E, Cao Y, Burchardt 
M, Chopin DK, Katz AE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, The Squier Urological Clinic, Columbia University
College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, New
York, New York, USA.

Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay is a sensitive
technique to detect circulating cells expressing prostate-specific antigen (PSA) 
in blood or bone marrow from patients with prostate cancer. When applied to
prostate cancer patients at our institution, this technique identifies those
patients with a greater likelihood of extra-prostatic disease. We evaluated
RT-PCR PSA as a predictor of PSA recurrence and compared it with pre-operative
(serum PSA, digital rectal examination, Gleason score on biopsy) and
post-operative parameters (pathological findings). Three hundred nineteen men
scheduled for radical prostatectomy had an enhanced RT-PCR PSA assay before
surgery. The enhanced RT-PCR PSA protocol has been previously described. PSA
recurrence was defined as any serum PSA value above 0.2 microgram/l. Forty-six
patients had PSA recurrence. The mean follow-up was 25.4 months. Recurrence free 
survival was 53% for patients with positive RT-PCR PSA vs. 84% if RT-PCR PSA was 
negative. By using multivariate analyses, RT-PCR PSA status was not an
independent predictor of PSA recurrence compared to pathological stage pT3,
Gleason score on prostate specimen and serum PSA. If only pre-operative
parameters were studied, serum PSA and RT-PCR PSA status were 2 independent
pre-operative predictors of PSA recurrence compared with Gleason score on biopsy 
and digital rectal examination. Int. J. Cancer (Pred. Oncol.) 84:360-364, 1999.

Copyright 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc.


PMID: 10404086  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1670. Hepatogastroenterology. 1999 Mar-Apr;46(26):985-90.

Quantification of thymidylate synthase gene expression in human gastrointestinal 
carcinoma tissues using competitive PCR.

Omura K(1), Morishita M, Kawakami K, Kanehira E, Ishida Y, Watanabe Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery 1, Kanazawa University School of Medicine Faculty of
Medicine, Japan. omura@med.kanazawa-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Thymidylate synthase (TS) is a target enzyme for 5-fluorouracil 
(5-FU). It is important to know the TS expression level in tumor tissue for
chemotherapy. We evaluated the TS expression level using competitive polymerase
chain reaction (cPCR), and estimated the reliability and reproducibility of this 
method.
METHODOLOGY: TS expression was assessed by both Fluorodeoxyuridine-monophosphate 
(FdUMP) binding assay and cPCR in 9 human adenocarcinoma cell lines and 50 human 
adenocarcinoma tissues obtained by surgical resection. TS expression was also
assessed by cPCR in nine biopsy specimens obtained before surgery. We synthesized
TS and beta-actin competitors. Following cPCR, PCR products were quantified on
ethidium bromide-stained gels using a digital image analyzer. TS mRNA/beta-actin 
mRNA ratio was used to determine relative TS expression level.
RESULTS: The number of FdUMP binding sites on TS and TS mRNA/beta-actin mRNA
ratio were significantly correlated in both cell lines and surgically resected
specimens (p < 0.01). A linear regression line formed from the data points was
obtained for TS mRNA/beta-actin mRNA ratios in surgical specimens versus TS
mRNA/beta-actin mRNA ratios in biopsy specimens (p < 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Assessment of TS expression by cPCR using our competitors was
accurate and reproducible.


PMID: 10370652  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1671. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 1999 May;40(6):1112-23.

Correlation of VEGF expression by leukocytes with the growth and regression of
blood vessels in the rat cornea.

Edelman JL(1), Castro MR, Wen Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Allergan, Irvine, California 92612, USA.

PURPOSE: To determine the temporal and spatial relationships between
neovascularization and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and vascular
endothelial growth factor (VEGF) mRNA and protein expression in the rat cornea
after cautery with silver nitrate.
METHODS: In female Sprague-Dawley rats, a silver nitrate applicator was placed on
the central cornea to elicit circumferential angiogenesis, and blood vessel
growth was quantified by digital image analysis of corneal flat-mounts. Total RNA
or protein was extracted from whole corneas until 1 week after cautery, and bFGF 
and VEGF mRNA and protein levels were determined by reverse
transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent 
assay (ELISA). To localize VEGF mRNA and protein, paraformaldehyde-fixed and
paraffin-embedded histologic cross sections of corneas were examined by in situ
hybridization and immunohistochemistry. Macrophages were identified by ED2
immunohistochemistry. To examine the regulation of VEGF, rats were treated with
dexamethasone (0.5 mg/kg per day) and hyperoxia (70% O2).
RESULTS: The neovascular response progresses in three phases: (1) a
nonproliferative phase preceding vessel growth (< or = 48 hours after cautery);
(2) a proliferative phase with maximal growth rate between 3 and 4 days; and (3) 
a regressive phase (day 7) with a decrease in vessel density accompanying the
completion of vessel elongation. In corneas after cautery, bFGF mRNA expression
was unchanged, and bFGF protein concentration decreaseed by 97% after 24 hours
and returned to control levels by day 7. In contrast, VEGF164 and VEGF188 mRNA
splice variants and protein peaked 48 hours after cautery, remained elevated 4
days after cautery, and decreased to near baseline by day 7. The peak
concentration of VEGF in the cornea at 48 hours was calculated to be 720 pM,
which is sufficient to evoke a functional response. In situ hybridization and
immunohistochemistry showed VEGF expressed initially in neutrophils (24 - 48
hours) and subsequently in macrophages (4 days) adjacent to the cautery site.
Treatment with either dexamethasone or systemic hyperoxia inhibited both
neovascularization and the increase in VEGF expression. Dexamethasone inhibited
27% of cautery-induced VEGF upregulation at 24 hours and 23% at 48 hours,
hyperoxia inhibited 32% at 24 hours and 43% at 48 hours, and combined treatment
with both dexamethasone and hyperoxia had an additive effect (56% inhibition at
24 hours).
CONCLUSIONS: VEGF production by leukocytes correlates temporally and spatially
with cautery-induced angiogenesis in the rat cornea. Both inflammatory products
and hypoxia appear to sufficiently increase VEGF expression near the cautery
lesion to increase vascular permeability of limbal vessels and induce endothelial
cell migration and proliferation.


PMID: 10235544  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1672. Blood. 1999 Apr 1;93(7):2327-35.

An alternatively spliced form of CD79b gene may account for altered B-cell
receptor expression in B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

Alfarano A(1), Indraccolo S, Circosta P, Minuzzo S, Vallario A, Zamarchi R,
Fregonese A, Calderazzo F, Faldella A, Aragno M, Camaschella C, Amadori A,
Caligaris-Cappio F.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Biomediche e Oncologia Umana, Università di Torino,
Italy.

Several functional anomalies of B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cells may 
be explained by abnormalities of the B-cell receptor (BCR), a multimeric complex 
formed by the sIg homodimer and the noncovalently bound heterodimer
Igalpha/Igbeta (CD79a/CD79b). Because the expression of the extracellular Ig-like
domain of CD79b has been reported to be absent in the cells of most CLL cases, we
have investigated the molecular mechanisms that may account for this defect.
Peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) from 50 patients and two cell lines (MEC1,
MEC2) obtained from the PBL of one of them were studied. MEC1, MEC2, and 75% of
CLL cases did not express detectable levels of the extracellular Ig-like domain
of CD79b, which was nevertheless present in greater than 80% CD19(+) cells from
normal donors. In healthy subjects the expression of CD79b was equally
distributed in CD5(+) and CD5(-) B-cell subsets. Reverse transcription-polymerase
chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis of CD79b RNA from all patients and from MEC1 and
MEC2 cell lines consistently yielded two fragments of different size (709 bp and 
397 bp). The 709-bp band corresponds to CD79b entire transcript; the 397-bp band 
corresponds to an alternatively spliced form lacking exon 3 that encodes the
extracellular Ig-like domain. Both fragments were also visible in normal PBL. The
expression of the 397-bp fragment was increased in normal activated B cells,
while no difference was seen between CD5(+) and CD5(-) B cells. To obtain a more 
accurate estimate of the relative proportions of the two spliced forms, a
radioactive PCR was performed in 13 normal and 22 B-CLL samples and the results
analyzed using a digital imager. The mean value of the CD79b to the CD79b
internally deleted ratio was 0.64 +/- 0.20 SD in normal donors and 0.44 +/- 0.27 
SD in B-CLL (P =.01). Direct sequencing of 397-bp RT-PCR products and of genomic 
DNA corresponding to exon 3 from MEC1, MEC2, their parental cells, and five fresh
B-CLL samples did not show any causal mutation. Single-strand conformation
polymorphism analysis of exon 3 performed in 18 additional B-CLL cases showed a
single abnormal shift corresponding to a TGT --> TGC polymorphic change at amino 
acid 122. We propose a role for the alternative splicing of CD79b gene in causing
the reduced expression of BCR on the surface of B-CLL cells. As normal B cells
also present this variant, the mechanism of CD79b posttranscriptional regulation 
might reflect the activation stage of the normal B cell from which B-CLL derives.


PMID: 10090943  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1673. Med Phys. 1999 Jan;26(1):27-37.

Performance characteristics of a Kodak computed radiography system.

Bradford CD(1), Peppler WW, Dobbins JT 3rd.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Physics, University of Wisconsin, Madison 53706, USA.

The performance characteristics of a photostimulable phosphor based computed
radiographic (CR) system were studied. The modulation transfer function (MTF),
noise power spectra (NPS), and detective quantum efficiency (DQE) of the Kodak
Digital Science computed radiography (CR) system (Eastman Kodak Co.-model 400)
were measured and compared to previously published results of a Fuji based CR
system (Philips Medical Systems-PCR model 7000). To maximize comparability, the
same measurement techniques and analysis methods were used. The DQE at four
exposure levels (30, 3, 0.3, 0.03 mR) and two plate types (standard and high
resolution) were calculated from the NPS and MTF measurements. The NPS was
determined from two-dimensional Fourier analysis of uniformly exposed plates. The
presampling MTF was determined from the Fourier transform (FT) of the system's
finely sampled line spread function (LSF) as produced by a narrow slit. A
comparison of the slit type ("beveled edge" versus "straight edge") and its
effect on the resulting MTF measurements was also performed. The results show
that both systems are comparable in resolution performance. The noise power
studies indicated a higher level of noise for the Kodak images (approximately 20%
at the low exposure levels and 40%-70% at higher exposure levels). Within the
clinically relevant exposure range (0.3-3 mR), the resulting DQE for the Kodak
plates ranged between 20%-50% lower than for the corresponding Fuji plates.
Measurements of the presampling MTF with the two slit types have shown that a
correction factor can be applied to compensate for transmission through the
relief edges.

DOI: 10.1118/1.598781 
PMID: 9949395  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1674. Am J Hum Genet. 1998 Dec;63(6):1631-40.

Mutation analysis of the RSK2 gene in Coffin-Lowry patients: extensive allelic
heterogeneity and a high rate of de novo mutations.

Jacquot S(1), Merienne K, De Cesare D, Pannetier S, Mandel JL, Sassone-Corsi P,
Hanauer A.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Génétique et de Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire, CNRS, INSERM, 
Strasbourg.

Coffin-Lowry syndrome (CLS) is an X-linked disorder characterized by severe
psychomotor retardation, facial and digital dysmorphisms, and progressive
skeletal deformations. By using a positional cloning approach, we have recently
shown that mutations in the gene coding for the RSK2 serine-threonine protein
kinase are responsible for this syndrome. To facilitate mutational analysis, we
have now determined the genomic structure of the human RSK2 gene. The open
reading frame of the RSK2 coding region is split into 22 exons. Primers were
designed for PCR amplification of single exons from genomic DNA and subsequent
single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis. We screened 37 patients with
clinical features suggestive of CLS. Twenty-five nucleotide changes predicted to 
be disease-causing mutations were identified, including eight splice-site
alterations, seven nonsense mutations, five frameshift mutations, and five
missense mutations. Twenty-three of them were novel mutations. Coupled with
previously reported mutations, these findings bring the total of different RSK2
mutations to 34. These are distributed throughout the RSK2 gene, with no
clustering, and all but two, which have been found in two independent patients,
are unique. A very high (68%) rate of de novo mutations was observed. It is
noteworthy also that three mutations were found in female probands, with no
affected male relatives, ascertained through learning disability and mild but
suggestive facial and digital dysmorphisms. No obvious correlation was observed
between the position or type of the RSK2 mutations and the severity or particular
clinical features of CLS.

DOI: 10.1086/302153 
PMCID: PMC1377634
PMID: 9837815  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1675. Urology. 1998 Dec;52(6):1073-8.

Effect of prostate biopsy on the results of the PSA RT-PCR test.

Goldman HB(1), Israeli RS, Lerner JL, Hollabaugh RS Jr, Steiner MS.

Author information: 
(1)University of Tennessee Urologic Research Laboratories and Department of
Urology, University of Tennessee, Memphis 38163, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the effect of prostate biopsy on the prostate-specific
antigen (PSA) reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test.
METHODS: Ninety men who were scheduled to undergo prostate biopsy because of an
elevated PSA or abnormal digital rectal examination, or both, were recruited to
have PSA RT-PCR performed on peripheral blood samples drawn before and at 30
minutes, 1 week, and 1 month after undergoing prostate biopsy. PSA RT-PCR was
performed and all PCR products were blotted and hybridized with phosphorus-32
(32-P)-PSA cDNA probe (exon 3 to 5).
RESULTS: Of 90 patients, 77 had a negative prebiopsy PSA RT-PCR result. Of these 
77, 2 (2.6%) had a positive PSA RT-PCR result at some point after the biopsy
procedure. Both of these patients had no evidence of malignancy on biopsy. The
PSA RT-PCR test was positive at 30 minutes for 1 patient, but was negative at 1
week; the other was positive at 1 week but the patient did not return for the
1-month sample.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study indicates that 2.6% of patients with an initially negative
PSA RT-PCR will have a positive PSA RT-PCR test after biopsy has been performed. 
Although this is uncommon, it may have profound implications for those patients
in whom it occurs. On the basis of our results, it appears that one should wait
longer than 1 week after prostate biopsy before obtaining blood for PSA RT-PCR
testing to decrease the likelihood of a spurious PSA RT-PCR result.


PMID: 9836557  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1676. J Clin Periodontol. 1998 Oct;25(10):774-80.

Longitudinal changes in TCRB variable gene expression and markers of gingival
inflammation in experimental gingivitis.

Preshaw PM(1), Geatch DR, Lauffart B, Jeffcoat MK, Taylor JJ, Heasman PA.

Author information: 
(1)Ohio State University, Columbus, USA.

The aim of this study was to gain information of the cellular and molecular
events which occur during the development of experimental gingivitis and to
determine whether such changes occur in the presence or absence of alveolar bone 
resorption. Clinical, radiographic, biochemical and immunological variables were 
monitored in a 3-week, single-centre, experimental gingivitis study of 10 healthy
volunteers. Following screening and professional prophylaxis to achieve visibly
healthy gingival status, subjects abstained from all oral hygiene practises in
one maxillary (test) quadrant for a period of 21 days. At days 0 and 21, in test 
and (contralateral) control quadrants, % bleeding on controlled pressure probing 
(% BOP) was calculated, and radiographic alveolar bone status was assessed using 
bilateral standardised vertical bite-wing radiographs and digital subtraction
radiography (DSR) analysis. In test quadrants, gingival crevicular fluid (GCF)
was sampled from 4 sites per subject with Periopaper strips, and prostaglandin E2
(PGE2) levels measured using an enzyme immunoassay (EIA) kit. At days 0, 7 and
21, one interdental papilla was surgically excised from the test quadrant, and
the expression of T cell receptor B variable (TCRBV) genes was investigated using
a reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) procedure. At days 0, 
7 and 21, peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) were isolated and additionally
investigated for TCRBV gene expression. Following 21 days of plaque accumulation 
in test quadrants, a statistically significant increase in % BOP scores confirmed
the presence of gingival inflammation (p<0.001). DSR analysis revealed that there
were no significant alveolar bone changes in either the test or control quadrants
between days 0 and 21 (p>0.05). EIA analysis of GCF samples identified a
significant decrease in mean GCF PGE2 concentrations from day 0 to day 21
(p<0.05). RT-PCR analysis indicated that genes from all 3 TCRBV families studied 
(TCRBV-2, -6, -8) were expressed in the PBL samples at all time points and in
healthy gingival tissues at day 0. A restriction in the expression pattern of
TCRBV genes similar to those which have previously been reported in chronic
periodontitis was noted at gingivitis sites. It is possible that such an event
may identify susceptibility to periodontal disease independently of other
positive predictive markers such as GCF-PGE2.


PMID: 9797048  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1677. Int J Urol. 1998 Jul;5(4):349-56.

Molecular staging of prostate cancer: comparison of nested reverse transcription 
polymerase chain reaction assay using prostate specific antigen versus prostate
specific membrane antigen as primer.

Okegawa T(1), Yoshioka J, Morita R, Nutahara K, Tsukada Y, Higashihara E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Kyorin University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: We examined the utility for prostate cancer staging of nested reverse
transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using either prostate specific
antigen (PSA) or prostate specific membrane antigen (PSM) as primer.
METHODS: LNCaP cells were used for the in vitro quantification of RT-PCR. RT-PCR 
was performed on the peripheral blood of 105 control subjects and 63 patients
with prostate cancer (32 who eventually underwent radical prostatectomy and 31
with clinical stage D2 cancer).
RESULTS: The nested RT-PCR for the PSA and PSM primers was able to detect 1 LNCaP
cell per 10(6) leukemia (K562) cells. None of the control subjects was found
positive for the presence of prostate cancer cells by nested RT-PCR. In the
32-patient surgery group, the results of nested RT-PCR were significantly
correlated with the pathologic stage of the cancer when using PSM primers (P=2.00
x 10(-3) by Kendall's correlation test) but not when using PSA primers (P=0.06). 
Extraprostatic extension was significantly more closely correlated with positive 
PSM nested RT-PCR results (P=0.012 by Fisher's exact probability test) than with 
positive results of PSA, nested RT-PCR, digital rectal examination, CT imaging,
level of serum PSA or Gleason score. In the untreated stage D2 patients, the
positive result rate of PSM nested RT-PCR was significantly higher than that of
PSA nested RT-PCR (P=0.025 by McNemar test).
CONCLUSION: Nested RT-PCR using PSM primers appears to predict the prostate
cancer stage more accurately than does nested RT-PCR using PSA primers or
conventional clinical staging modalities.


PMID: 9712443  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1678. Urology. 1998 Aug;52(2):261-6; discussion 266-7.

Detection and clearance of prostate cells subsequent to ultrasound-guided needle 
biopsy as determined by multiplex nested reverse transcription polymerase chain
reaction assay.

Price DK(1), Clontz DR, Woodard WL 3rd, Kaufman JS, Daniels JM, Stolzenberg SJ,
Teigland CM.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Biology Laboratory, Cannon Research Center, Carolinas Medical
Center, Charlotte, North Carolina 28232-2861, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To determine if circulating prostate cells are detectable subsequent 
to transrectal ultrasound (TRUS)-guided biopsy, and if so, whether cells remain
in circulation for up to 4 weeks.
METHODS: Blood samples were drawn from 90 patients with elevated serum
prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels and/or abnormal digital rectal
examination. Two samples were drawn from all patients immediately prior to TRUS
and 30 minutes postbiopsy. Blood samples were also obtained 1 week postbiopsy
from 83 patients, and 1 month postbiopsy from 61 patients. Multiplex nested
reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction assay (RT-PCR) for PSA and
prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSM) was performed on total ribonucleic acid 
(RNA) from each sample. Results were reported as positive if at least one of the 
targets was detected.
RESULTS: Of 45 patients with biopsy-proven adenocarcinoma, 22 were RT-PCR
positive prebiopsy and all remained positive 30 minutes postbiopsy. Of 23
patients with adenocarcinoma who were RT-PCR negative prebiopsy, 5 (22%)
converted to positive 30 minutes postbiopsy (P < 0.001). Four of these 5 patients
returned to negative after 1 week or 1 month. Of 45 patients without cancer at
biopsy, 32 were RT-PCR negative prebiopsy and 6 (19%) converted to positive 30
minutes postbiopsy (P < 0.001). Although four of six available samples were still
positive at 1 week, all four samples available 1 month postbiopsy were negative.
CONCLUSIONS: Detection of circulating prostate cells subsequent to biopsy
occurred in 11 of 55 (20%) previously RT-PCR negative patients, a proportion
twice that reported in the literature. We attribute this higher proportion to the
simultaneous detection of PSA and PSM mRNA in our multiplex assay. Conversion
rates were similar in patients regardless of biopsy result. Testing of serial
postbiopsy blood demonstrates clearing of these cells by 4 weeks in most
patients.


PMID: 9697792  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1679. J Biomed Sci. 1998;5(2):86-92.

Digital cloning: identification of human cDNAs homologous to novel kinases
through expressed sequence tag database searching.

Chen HC(1), Kung HJ, Robinson D.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Genomic Medicine Division, National Health Research Institutes, 
Taipei, Taiwan, ROC.

Identification of novel kinases based on their sequence conservation within
kinase catalytic domain has relied so far on two major approaches, low-stringency
hybridization of cDNA libraries, and PCR method using degenerate primers. Both of
these approaches at times are technically difficult and time-consuming. We have
developed a procedure that can significantly reduce the time and effort involved 
in searching for novel kinases and increase the sensitivity of the analysis. This
procedure exploits the computer analysis of a vast resource of human cDNA
sequences represented in the expressed sequence tag (EST) database. Seventeen
novel human cDNA clones showing significant homology to serine/threonine kinases,
including STE-20, CDK- and YAK-related family kinases, were identified by
searching EST database. Further sequence analysis of these novel kinases obtained
either directly from EST clones or from PCR-RACE products confirmed their
identity as protein kinases. Given the rapid accumulation of the EST database and
the advent of powerful computer analysis software, this approach provides a fast,
sensitive, and economical way to identify novel kinases as well as other genes
from EST database.


PMID: 9662067  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1680. Vet Microbiol. 1998 Feb 28;60(2-4):285-92.

The frequent detection of a treponeme in bovine digital dermatitis by
immunocytochemistry and polymerase chain reaction.

Demirkan I(1), Carter SD, Murray RD, Blowey RW, Woodward MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Clinical Science and Animal Husbandry, Liverpool
University, Leahurst, Neston, South Wirral, UK.

A study was carried out to determine whether spirochaetes are frequently
associated with digital dermatitis in United Kingdom (UK) dairy cattle.
Histopathological examination of lesions using a silver stain showed a large
number of unidentified spirochaete-like organisms present in digital dermatitis
hoof skin tissue in all examined biopsies. Immunocytochemical staining
demonstrated that spirochaetes in skin lesions were identified by polyclonal
antisera to Borrelia burgdorferi, Treponema denticola and Treponema vincentii
(again all biopsies were positively stained), whereas monoclonal antibodies to B.
burgdorferi and any Treponema pallidum did not stain any organisms in all
biopsies. A PCR of 16S rRNA, previously shown to be specific for a new treponeme,
was employed and produced positive results from 82.4% of digital dermatitis
tissues. It is concluded that this spirochaete (or related spirochaetes), which
is similar to human oral treponemes, is frequently associated with, and may be
responsible for, pathological changes in digital dermatitis.


PMID: 9646459  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1681. Biotechniques. 1998 May;24(5):820-5.

Fast-painting of human metaphase spreads using a chromosome-specific,
repeat-depleted DNA library probe.

Durm M(1), Schüssler L, Münch H, Craig J, Ludwig H, Hausmann M, Cremer C.

Author information: 
(1)University of Heidelberg, Germany.

For chromosome painting, in situ suppression of repetitive DNA sequences has been
well established. Such standard protocols usually require large amounts of Cot-I 
DNA. Recently, it has become possible to deplete repetitive DNA sequences from
library probes by magnetic purification and PCR-assisted affinity chromatography.
These "repeat-depleted library probes" appear to be extremely useful for
Fast-FISH, a technique that omits denaturing chemical agents such as formamide in
the hybridization buffer, resulting in a substantial acceleration and
simplification of the complete protocol. Shown here is the application of
Fast-FISH to a repeat-depleted, directly fluorochrome-labeled library probe of
the q-arm of chromosome 15 (Fast-Painting) for human lymphocyte metaphase
spreads. Following painting without Cot-I DNA and without formamide, visual
inspection revealed sufficient chromosome painting after a few hours of
hybridization. The fluorescence signals of the labeling sites were analyzed after
hybridization times of 1 and 2 h (in one case, 4 h) using digital fluorescence
microscopy. The painting efficiency expressed in values of relative fluorescence 
signal ratios was quantitatively evaluated by image analysis using line-scan
procedures and area-morphometry of mean luminance. Two preparation protocols
(ethanol dehydration without and with RNase A treatment followed by pepsin
digestion for four different exposure times) were compared. These results
indicated that RNase A treatment and pepsin digestion are steps that can be
omitted.


PMID: 9591132  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1682. Hum Mol Genet. 1998 Apr;7(4):643-53.

Hypervariable digital DNA codes for human paternal lineages: MVR-PCR at the
Y-specific minisatellite, MSY1 (DYF155S1).

Jobling MA(1), Bouzekri N, Taylor PG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Leicester, Adrian Building, University
Road, Leicester LE1 7RH, UK. maj4@leicester.ac.uk

We describe the first haploid minisatellite, the human Y chromosome-specific
locus, MSY1. It consists of an array of 48-114 AT-rich 25 bp repeats of at least 
five different variant types. A minisatellite variant repeat PCR (MVR-PCR) system
gives Y-specific DNA codes, with a virtual heterozygosity of 99.9%, making MSY1
by far the single most variable locus on the Y. African populations contain the
most diverged MSY1 structures. MSY1 is the only Y-chromosomal system where the
characteristics of large numbers of mutations can be studied in detail: it
provides a uniquely powerful tool both for the investigation of mutation in a
haploid system, and for the dating of paternal lineages.


PMID: 9499417  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1683. Brain Res Brain Res Protoc. 1997 Dec 1;2(1):59-68.

Functional analysis by imaging of melanophore pigment dispersion of chimeric
receptors constructed by recombinant polymerase chain reaction.

McClintock TS(1), Lerner MR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Kentucky, Lexington 40536-0084, USA.
mcclint@pop.uky.edu

Analysis of functional aspects of the molecular structure of proteins often
requires a means to selectively alter structure and subsequently analyze
function. We have adapted a method of overlap extension polymerase chain reaction
(PCR) to generate multiple domain replacements in G-protein coupled receptors.
The examples described herein are beta 2-adrenergic receptors whose G-protein
coupling domains have been replaced by homologous domains of olfactory receptors,
but the procedure has also been used to produce constructs with mutations,
deletions, and fusions of two complete open reading frames. The chimeric
olfactory-adrenergic receptors were assayed by functional expression in clonal
lines of Xenopus melanophores. The ability of G-protein coupled second messenger 
pathways to cause translocation of pigment organelles within melanophores allows 
the use of video microscopy to assay the function of the chimeric receptors.
Digital automation of microscope stage, camera, and image processing allows
multiple parallel experiments to be performed. Melanophores allow responses
mediated by the Gs, Gq and Gi pathways to be assayed with equal efficiency and
the specificity of the coupling between chimera (or receptor) and G-protein
subtypes can be rapidly determined.


PMID: 9438073  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1684. Histochem Cell Biol. 1997 Oct-Nov;108(4-5):299-305.

Spectral karyotyping, a 24-colour FISH technique for the identification of
chromosomal rearrangements.

Macville M(1), Veldman T, Padilla-Nash H, Wangsa D, O'Brien P, Schröck E, Ried T.

Author information: 
(1)Genome Technology Branch, National Human Genome Research Institute, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-4479, USA.

Spectral karyotyping (SKY) is a new fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH)
technique that refers to the molecular cytogenetic analysis of metaphase
preparations by means of spectral microscopy. For SKY of human metaphase
chromosomes, 24 chromosome-specific painting probes are used in just one FISH
experiment. The probes are labelled by degenerate oligonucleotide-primed PCR
using three fluorochromes and two haptens. Each probe is differentially labelled 
with one, two, three or four fluorescent dyes, resulting in a unique spectral
signature for every chromosome. After in situ hybridisation and immunodetection, 
a spectral image is acquired using a conventional fluorescence light microscope
equipped with a custom-designed triple-bandpass filter and the SpectraCube, which
is able to retrieve spectral information for every pixel in a digital CCD image. 
The 24-colour display and chromosome classification are based on the unique
emission spectra of the chromosomes. Together with chromosome banding information
from an inverted DAPI or a G-banded metaphase, a comprehensive overview of
chromosomal aberrations is presented.


PMID: 9387921  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1685. Invest Radiol. 1997 Nov;32(11):651-9.

Dynamic phosphorus-31 magnetic resonance spectroscopy in arterial occlusive
disease. Correlation with clinical and angiographic findings and comparison with 
healthy volunteers.

Schunk K(1), Romaneehsen B, Mildenberger P, Kersjes W, Schadmand-Fischer S,
Thelen M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, University Hospital Mainz, Germany.

RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES: The aim of this prospective study was to explore
muscular metabolism in arterial occlusive disease (AOD) by dynamic phosphorus-31 
(31P) magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS).
METHODS: The authors examined 56 patients with AOD. Acquisition of up to 60
consecutive phosphorus spectra of the quadriceps muscle was done by "time series"
in 36 seconds each. In this way, the authors achieved uninterrupted monitoring of
muscle metabolism during rest, exhaustion, and recovery. During 31P MRS, the
volunteers performed an isometric and an isotonic exercise until exhaustion of
the quadriceps muscle. Spectroscopic results of 56 patients with AOD were
correlated with clinical and angiographic findings and were compared with
spectroscopic results of 10 age-matched healthy volunteers.
RESULTS: There were no significantly differing spectroscopic results between
patients and volunteers at rest, except for an elevated ratio phosphomonoester
(PME)/beta-adenosine triphosphate (ATP) in patients with AOD (0.66 +/- 0.19
versus 0.48 +/- 0.09). Despite a sixfold duration of both of the exercises until 
exhaustion in healthy volunteers, exercise-induced changes of inorganic phosphate
(P1)/phosphocreatine (PCr), PME/beta-ATP, and pH were similar in healthy
volunteers and patients with AOD. Compared with maximal exercise-induced values
of Pi/PCr, acidosis was relatively increased in AOD, resulting in a steeper slope
of linear regression line (-0.33 +/- 0.06 versus -0.14 +/- 0.06) between these
parameters. Recovery rate of Pi/PCr was markedly prolonged in AOD (time of half
recovery: 80 seconds versus 25 seconds [isometric exercise] and 70 seconds versus
37 seconds [isotonic exercise]), whereas recovery rate of pH was not
significantly slowed down in our patients (192 seconds versus 166 seconds
[isometric exercise] and 234 seconds versus 220 seconds [isotonic exercise]).
CONCLUSIONS: Dynamic 31P MRS provides a direct judgment of muscular metabolism,
which is not only influenced by macro-, but also by microangiopathia. Results of 
31P MRS suggest a reduced mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation in AOD.


PMID: 9387051  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1686. J Clin Microbiol. 1997 Nov;35(11):2864-8.

Frequency and natural history of rhinovirus infections in adults during autumn.

Arruda E(1), Pitkäranta A, Witek TJ Jr, Doyle CA, Hayden FG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Virginia School of Medicine,
Charlottesville 22908, USA.

Human rhinovirus (HRV) accounts for a significant portion of common-cold illness,
with the peak incidence being in the early fall. Three hundred forty-six adults
who had self-diagnosed colds of 48 h or less were enrolled in a study during
September and October 1994 to determine the frequency and clinical course of HRV 
infections. Nasal wash specimens for viral culture and reverse transcription-PCR 
(RT-PCR) for HRV RNA and human coronavirus OC43 and 229E RNA detection were
collected on enrollment, and participants recorded their symptoms twice daily for
14 days. Middle ear pressure (MEP) was measured with a digital tympanometer on
days 1 and 7. Picornaviruses (224 HRV and 7 enterovirus isolates) were detected
by culture in 67% (231 of 346) of the subjects. Among 114 samples negative by
culture, HRV was detected by RT-PCR in 52 (46%) for an overall picornavirus
infection rate of 82% (283 of 346 subjects). Among the remaining 62 negative
samples, human coronavirus RNA was detected by RT-PCR in 5 patients, so that 288 
(83%) of patients had documented viral infection. The first symptom noticed most 
often was sore throat (40%) in HRV culture- or PCR-positive patients and stuffy
nose in HRV-negative patients (27%). No differences in symptom scores over time
or in the presence of individual symptoms were noted between groups. The median
duration of the cold episodes was 11 days in HRV culture-positive patients, 9.5
days in HRV RT-PCR-positive patients, and 11.5 days in HRV-negative patients. On 
enrollment, abnormal MEPs (< or = -100 or > or = +100 mm of H2O) were found for
21% of HRV culture-positive patients, 14% of HRV RT-PCR-positive patients, and
10% of HRV-negative patients. No important differences in the clinical course of 
HRV culture-positive, HRV culture-negative and RT-PCR-positive, or HRV-negative
colds were found. These results represent the highest frequency of virologically 
confirmed natural colds to date and document the importance of rhinoviruses as
the cause of colds during fall months.


PMCID: PMC230076
PMID: 9350748  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1687. Biol Pharm Bull. 1997 Sep;20(9):1013-6.

A simple quantitative measurement of mRNA of human beta-actin by reverse
transcription competitive PCR with a compact digital camera.

Okamoto Y(1), Hara Y, Katoh Y, Nagai H, Nishida M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Meijo Unviersity,
Nagoya, Japan.

Reverse transcription (RT) competitive polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a
sensitive and useful technique for the absolute quantitation of mRNA level. We
developed a competitive PCR method with a compact digital camera DC 40 (Eastman
Kodak Company, NY, U.S.A.) for the measurement of human beta-actin cDNA (mRNA), a
reference gene in an analysis for target gene expression. The devised method,
compared with currently used methods, was easy, safe, sensitive, and highly
reproducible to assay an infinitesimal level of cDNA (mRNA).


PMID: 9331988  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1688. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1997 Aug;78(8):867-71.

Muscle metabolism changes with training in the nonamputated limb after vascular
amputation: interest of phosphorus 31 NMR spectroscopy.

Dulieu V(1), Casillas JM, Maillefert JF, Walker P, Cottin Y, Didier JP, Brunotte 
F.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Readaptation, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Dijon, France.

OBJECTIVE: To determine by 31P nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy the 
efficacy of training in improving aerobic metabolism of calf muscle in
nonamputated limb after recent vascular amputation; to assess the possible
associated microcirculatory changes; and to evaluate the need for noninvasive
monitoring techniques during training in the nonamputated limb after recent
vascular amputation.
DESIGN: Prospective study, before and after training. Subjects served as their
own controls and were compared with a control group.
SETTING: Rehabilitation center of a university hospital.
PATIENTS: Ten unilateral vascular amputated patients were included with ankle
systolic index between 0.5 and 0.8 in the nonamputated limb, and 10 control
subjects without cardiovascular disease or risk factors of atherosclerosis with
ankle systolic index of >.95.
INTERVENTION: Walking with prosthesis at self-selected velocity over increasing
walking distance, arm training at a workload of 60% of a maximal arm test, and
analytical exercises of the nonamputated leg (dynamic contractions against low
resistance). Subjects received training as inpatients, 5 days a week.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Before and after training, ankle systolic index, forefoot 
transcutaneous oxygen tension (TcPO2) and veno-arteriolar reflex, and digital
plethysmography of the second toe with reactive hyperemia test were studied.
Changes in calf muscle pH, phosphocreatine (PCr), and inorganic phosphate (Pi)
were measured by 31P NMR spectroscopy at rest and during a plantar flexion-type
incremental protocol.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in ankle systolic index (.63 +/- .10
vs .64 + .07) or in TcPO2 (42 +/- 11 vs 44 +/- 10mmHg), and there was
reappearance of veno-arteriolar reflex in 3 cases, of a plethysmographic signal
in 2 cases, and of the positivity of the reactive hyperemia test in 3 cases. No
differences were found with 31P NMR spectroscopy at rest before and after
training. At the same workload (1 watt) the difference of the ratio (PCr/(PCr +
Pi)) of rest to effort (PCr depletion) was significantly increased in the
amputated patients (.423 +/- .159 vs .145 +/- .058; p < .01). This difference of 
ratio was lower after training (.360 +/- .158 vs .423 +/- .159; p < .05). The pH 
was less acid between the two periods.
CONCLUSION: Vascular monitoring with systolic index and TcPO2 is necessary to
follow and to prevent serious ischemia of the nonamputated limb. Claudication is 
often not detected because of early exhaustion during walking. Training after
recent vascular amputation improves the skeletal muscle oxidative capacity.


PMID: 9344308  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1689. Hum Pathol. 1997 Jul;28(7):815-9.

Giant cell tumor of tendon sheath is a polyclonal cellular proliferation.

Vogrincic GS(1), O'Connell JX, Gilks CB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Vancouver Hospital and Health
Sciences Centre, British Columbia, Canada.

Giant cell tumor of tendon sheath (GCTTS) is a common soft tissue tumor.
Immunophenotypical evidence suggests it is of synovial cell origin. There is
controversy regarding the underlying nature of this lesion, specifically whether 
it is a neoplastic or nonneoplastic (ie, reactive or hyperplastic) process.
Karyotypic abnormalities have been identified in GCTTS and interpreted as
evidence of neoplasia, although the finding of similar karyotypic abnormalities
in unequivocally nonneoplastic proliferations raises questions about using such
findings to define a neoplasm. In an attempt to resolve this uncertainty, a
polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based assay for methylation of the X-linked human
androgen receptor gene (HUMARA) was used to assess whether GCTTS is a clonal or
polyclonal proliferation. DNA was isolated from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded
tissue blocks from eight cases of digital GCTTS in female subjects; two cases of 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) were used as clonal controls. Seven of eight cases
of GCTTS were informative, and each showed a polyclonal proliferation, whereas
both cases of HCC were clonal. Our results indicate that GCTTS is a nonneoplastic
proliferation, if one accepts that a population of cells forming a tumorous mass 
must show clonality to be classified as a neoplasm. Our results emphasize that
simple karyotypic abnormalities do not define a neoplasm. It remains to be
determined whether GCTTS is a reactive or hyperplastic process.


PMID: 9224750  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1690. Mol Diagn. 1997 Jun;2(2):135-145.

Enhanced Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction for Prostate-specific
Antigen Combined With Needle Biopsy Results: A Superior Predictor of pT3 Disease.

Rubin MA(1), Fang M, Stifelman MD, De VRIES GM, Buttyan R, Benson MC, Katz AE,
Olsson CA, O'Toole K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, New
York, USA

Background: Preoperative staging for prostate cancer underestimates the final
pathology stage in approximately 40-50% of the cases. Previous work from our
institution demonstrated that an enhanced reverse transcriptase polymerase chain 
reaction (RT-PCR) assay for prostate-specific antigen (PSA) enabled more accurate
staging of presumably localized prostate cancer. The goal of the current study is
to determine if needle biopsy results when combined with the RT-PCR for PSA assay
are a better predictor of final pathology stage. Methods and Results: One hundred
sixty-two men with needle biopsy-diagnosed prostate cancer had blood drawn for
the RT-PCR for PSA assay before undergoing radical prostatectomy. Polymerase
chain reaction primers specific for the PSA gene were run, along with appropriate
controls. Tumor was characterized using the TMN staging system: organ confined
(pT2a-c), capsular penetration (pT2a-b), seminal vesicle involvement (pT3c).
Surgical margins and lymph nodes were also evaluated. Of the 162 patients, the
majority had localized disease by digital rectal examination: T2 = 97%, and T3 = 
3%. On needle biopsy, 48 cases (30%) had a Gleason score >/=7 and 35 cases (22%) 
had perineural involvement (PNI). The RT-PCR for PSA assay was positive in 50
patients (31%). Final pathology revealed 39% of patients had pT3 disease; none of
the 162 patients had lymph node involvement. Statistical analysis revealed that a
Gleason score >/=7 had 81% specificity and 46% sensitivity in predicting pT3
disease (odds ratio 3.6). The presence of PNI on needle biopsy was 89% specific
and 38% sensitive in predicting pT3 disease (odds ratio, 4.9). The RT-PCR for PSA
assay was 89% specific and 62% sensitive in predicting pT3 disease (odds ratio,
13.0). All 14 cases with both RT-PCR for PSA and PNI positivity had pT3 disease. 
Logistic regression analysis demonstrated the independent predictive strength of 
PNI on needle biopsy, Gleason score >/=7, and RT-PCR for PSA positivity for
identifying pT3 disease; their combined odds ratio was more than 180.
Conclusions: Using the RT-PCR for PSA assay in conjunction with needle biopsy
results increases the predictive strength for pT3 disease in patients with
presumed organ-confined prostate carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1054/MODI00200135 
PMID: 10462601 


1691. Urol Clin North Am. 1997 May;24(2):367-78.

Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction assays for prostate cancer.

Olsson CA(1), de Vries GM, Buttyan R, Katz AE.

Author information: 
(1)Squier Urology Clinic, New York, New York, USA.

RT-PCR, if targeted against a prostate-specific marker, can be a highly specific 
and sensitive assay to detect the presence of occult prostate cancer cells at
sites far distant from the primary tumor. The low false-positive rate (0.8%)
observed when combining most published studies and the high rate of detection of 
prostate cells in metastatic patients (88%) found in well-defined clinical
studies address the basic requirements of a clinically effective diagnostic
modality. Additionally, all reports indicate that RT-PCR positivity for PSA or
PSMA increases with increased stage of prostate cancer, suggesting that RT-PCR
assays may have value in staging the patient presumed to have clinically
localized disease. Indeed, data from two institutions have shown the unique
contribution that RT-PCR technology might lend to this most vexing problem. With 
the suggestive data already published, we remain optimistic that molecular
staging will become a reality in the future. After all, the variability in
techniques of RT-PCR (as well as differences in targets and samples assayed) used
by the various laboratories now investigating this method could themselves be
responsible for many of the differences reported. There is no question that
standardization among laboratories is essential before clinical utility of
molecular staging can be proved. Indeed, this endeavor represents the major aim
of the RT-PCR consortium in the United States. Nevertheless, at our own medical
center, we are struck by our finding that if a preoperative RT-PCR for PSA is
negative, the patient can be assured of a successful operative outcome in 88% of 
cases. We also are impressed by the data showing that if the serum PSA level is
greater than 10 ng/mL and the RT-PCR assay is positive, 90% of patients
undergoing radical surgery have adverse pathology reports (and, in fact, have
already experience operative failure in nearly half the cases). There is
increasing consensus that RT-PCR assays afford prognostic information that is
also unique. Three institutions have similar data comparing operative or
preoperative RT-PCR strategies (employing all three potential sample sources)
with treatment outcome. This may suggest the validity of RT-PCR as a staging
modality or, alternatively, suggest that a truly metastatic phenotype is
identified in patients with circulating PSA-synthesizing cells, or in patients
harboring PSA-synthesizing cells in node or marrow tissues. In either case,
RT-PCR appears already to provide information not available before the use of
this technology. In fact, in the only series comparing RT-PCR with other, more
established predictors (PSA, Gleason score) in a multivariate analysis, RT-PCR
status provided the best prognostic information. Prostate manipulation does, in
fact, appear to affect the RT-PCR assay. Although digital rectal examination and 
cystoscopy do not seem sufficiently invasive to release prostate cells into the
circulation, a small number of individuals undergoing transrectal ultrasound
biopsy will experience this phenomenon. This observation provides a cautionary
note relative to timing of sample collection for RT-PCR assays. Furthermore, a
significant fraction of patients undergoing prostate manipulation during radical 
surgery may experience shedding of prostate cells into the operative field and
release of some into the peripheral circulation. This has not been universally
observed and, even if true, may not share the significance of spontaneous RT-PCR 
positivity (before prostatic manipulation). In the one instance, a potentially
metastatic phenotype is responsible for RT-PCR positivity, whereas in the other
instance, PSA or PSMA synthesizing cells may have no metastatic potential at all.
Further studies on the biologic half-life of such cells are required before any
clinical judgement can be made regarding this phenomenon. In summary, there
appears to be consensus that RT-PCR technology can differentiate controls from
patients with metas


PMID: 9126234  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1692. Vet Rec. 1997 Mar 8;140(10):257-9.

Partial identification of spirochaetes from two dairy cows with digital
dermatitis by polymerase chain reaction analysis of the 16S ribosomal RNA gene.

Rijpkema SG(1), David GP, Hughes SL, Woodward MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bacteriology, Central Veterinary Laboratory, Addlestone, Surrey.

Specimens taken postmortem from typical lesions of digital dermatitis in two
dairy cows were tested by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for the presence of
a spirochaetal 16S rRNA gene. Seven different assays detected the gene in the
samples from both cows. Two of the PCR products were sequenced and a comparison
of the nucleotide sequences revealed that the spirochaete belonged to the genus
Treponema and was closely related to Treponema denticola. A PCR specific for the 
detection of the digital dermatitis-associated treponeme was developed.


PMID: 9080644  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1693. J Forensic Sci. 1997 Mar;42(2):316-9.

Effects of toluidine blue and destaining reagents used in sexual assault
examinations on the ability to obtain DNA profiles from postcoital vaginal swabs.

Hochmeister MN(1), Whelan M, Borer UV, Gehrig C, Binda S, Berzlanovich A, Rauch
E, Dirnhofer R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Legal Medicine, University of Berne, Switzerland.

Toluidine blue is an important tool to detect and document genital and perianal
injuries following sexual assault. Application of toluidine blue dye and its
subsequent removal from unstained areas by means of a destaining reagent, such as
diluted acetic acid or a lubricant has been shown to increase the detection rate 
of posterior fourchette lacerations from 16% to 40% in adult rape victims.
Currently, limited information on toluidine blue positive findings in sexually
active control groups imposes some limitation on the interpretation of these
injuries. Because injuries could otherwise be attributed to improper handling of 
an examination speculum or the improper insertion of the examining finger, the
toluidine blue test should be performed prior to any digital or speculum
examination and thus prior to the collection of forensic evidence. For forensic
DNA identity testing, it becomes pertinent to determine whether toluidine blue
and the destaining reagents used in a sexual assault examination have an adverse 
effect on the recovery of high molecular weight DNA from postcoital vaginal swabs
and thereby have an impact on restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP)
analysis or PCR-based tests. It is known that some of the lubricants used can
have a destructive effect on sperm motility. In order to investigate the
potential effects, postcoital vaginal swabs were taken 6 h after sexual
intercourse and exposed directly to 1% toluidine blue in aqueous solution, 1-10% 
acetic acid, and various surgical and vaginal lubricants. Subsequently, the DNA
was isolated and DNA identity typing (RFLP and PCR-based) was performed. The
results demonstrate, that these reagents have no negative effect on the ability
to obtain DNA profiles, either RFLP or PCR-based, from shallow and deep vaginal
swabs. The quantity and quality of extractable high molecular weight DNA obtained
was comparable with that from uncontaminated postcoital vaginal swabs. RFLP
patterns and PCR-based typing results on the D1S80, HUMTH01, TPOX, and CSF1PO
loci were consistent with the uncontaminated control swabs and the corresponding 
whole blood samples of the donors. Therefore, evidentiary material inadvertently 
contaminated with these reagents can be successfully typed.


PMID: 9068192  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1694. Cytogenet Cell Genet. 1997;79(1-2):64-70.

Construction of two near-kilobase resolution restriction maps of the 5'
regulatory region of the human apolipoprotein B gene by quantitative DNA fiber
mapping (QDFM).

Duell T(1), Nielsen LB, Jones A, Young SG, Weier HU.

Author information: 
(1)Life Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, CA 94720, USA.

Quantitative DNA fiber mapping (QDFM) is a high-resolution technique for physical
mapping of DNA. The method is based on hybridization of fluorescently labeled DNA
probes to individual DNA molecules stretched on a chemically modified glass
surface. We now demonstrate and validate a rapid QDFM-based approach for the
mapping of multiple restriction sites and precise localization of restriction
fragments in large genomic clones. Restriction fragments of a 70-kb P1 clone
(P1-70) containing the 5' region of the human apolipo-protein B gene (APOB) were 
subcloned and mapped along straightened P1-70 DNA molecules. Multicolor
fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and digital image analysis allowed us
to rapidly position 29 restriction fragments, ranging in size from 0.5 kb to 8
kb, and to map 43 restriction sites. The restriction map obtained by QDFM was in 
excellent agreement with information obtained by RecA-assisted restriction
endonuclease (RARE) cleavage, long-range PCR, and DNA sequence analyses of the
P1-70 clone. These data demonstrate that QDFM is a rapid, reliable method for
detailed restriction site-mapping of large DNA clones.


PMID: 9533015  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1695. World J Urol. 1997;15(4):257-61.

Can prostate-specific antigen reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction be 
used as a prospective test to diagnose prostate cancer?

Goldman HB(1), Israeli RS, Lu Y, Lerner JL, Hollabaugh RS, Steiner MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, University of Tennessee, Memphis 38163, USA.

The present study addressed the question as to whether prostate-specific antigen 
reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (PSA RT-PCR) could be used to
identify prospectively men who have prostate cancer and to help determine which
patients with an initially negative biopsy would benefit from rebiopsy. PSA
RT-PCR was performed prospectively on 90 patients who were to have a prostate
biopsy because of an elevated PSA level, an abnormal digital rectal examination, 
or both. PSA RT-PCR was performed, and the sensitivity of the test was enhanced
by hybridization of the PCR with a 32P-labeled PSA cDNA probe (exons 3-5). Of the
90 men, 36 (40%) had prostate cancer on biopsy. Of these 36 men, 5 (13.9%) had a 
positive PSA RT-PCR finding, whereas 31 (84.1%) tested negative. Of 54 men with
negative biopsies, 8 (14.8%) had a positive PSA RT-PCR result. The sensitivity of
PSA RT-PCR for the detection of biopsy-proven prostate cancer was 13.9% and the
specificity was 85.2%. Only 3 of 12 (25%) patients with advanced disease had a
positive test result. The sensitivity of PSA RT-PCR for the detection of
biopsy-proven prostate adenocarcinoma in men suspected of having prostate cancer 
is poor. Indeed, men without biopsy-proven prostate cancer are just as likely to 
have a positive result in the PSA RT-PCR as are men with cancer. Whether these
men with negative prostate biopsies and positive PSA RT-PCR findings may
eventually develop prostate cancer remains to be determined. At this time, PSA
RT-PCR for the prospective detection of prostate cancer should be considered
investigational.


PMID: 9280055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1696. Tumour Biol. 1997;18(1):53-68.

Detection of thymidylate synthase gene expression levels in formalin-fixed
paraffin embedded tissue by semiquantitative, nonradioactive reverse
transcriptase polymerase chain reaction.

Houze TA(1), Larsson L, Larsson PA, Hansson G, Gustavsson B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Ostra University Hospital, Göteborg, Sweden.

We describe a new, simple and reliable semiautomated strategy for quantifying
mRNA from archival specimens by using oligo(dT)25 paramagnetic beads and the
reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (PCR) coupled with quantitative
digital image analysis (Q-DIA). To evaluate the experimental conditions, we
examined thymidylate synthase (TS) gene expression in mRNA isolated from both
flash-frozen and formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded human biopsy samples using
biopsy material obtained from 2 patients prior to chemotherapy with
5-fluorouracil. Following the electrophoretic separation of the PCR products
through a 20% polyacrylamide gel, quantitation of the perimeters of the
silver-nitrate-stained PCR products will be done by Q-DIA using a video
frame-grabber board attached to a CCD camera using Image-Pro+ software.
Validation of this approach will involve a comparison of the observed gene
expression levels to TS protein levels obtained by tissue homogenization assays
of TS, tetrahydrofolate, 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate,
2'-deoxyuridine-5'-monophosphate and 5-fluoro-2'-deoxyuridylate (FdUMP), by
established [3H]FdUMP ligand-binding assays. The novelty of this method is that
it offers a low-cost means whereby Q-DIA is performed directly from the gel to
rapidly and accurately determine the level of TS gene expression, which is
standardized against the beta-actin housekeeping gene. In the protocol described 
herein, gene expression studies can be done quickly and without the use of
radioactive substances in both normal clinical samples shock frozen at the time
of surgical excision and in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded archival samples,
which are commonly available in all hospital pathology departments. To
demonstrate the utility of this method, mRNA was extracted from both
nonpathological and tumor biopsies originating from both types of material from
the same patients. TS gene expression in the flash-frozen and archival materials 
was compared to the level of TS intracellular enzyme activity in the same samples
and a correlation of 89 and 80% between the shock-frozen and archival material
relative to TS intracellular enzyme activity levels was observed. These findings 
suggest that routine semiautomated quantitative analysis of rare mRNA
transcripts, e.g. TS, from archival material can be applied for retrospective
studies.


PMID: 8989925  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1697. Diagn Mol Pathol. 1996 Dec;5(4):260-4.

Highly sensitive nonradioactive single-strand conformational polymorphism.
Detection of Ki-ras mutations.

Emanuel JR(1), Damico C, Ahn S, Bautista D, Costa J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT
06520-8023, USA.

Mutation detection by single-strand conformational polymorphism (SSCP) analysis
is more difficult when the variant is limited to a small proportion of target
sequences in a sample. Use of SYBR-Green II, a sensitive, nonradioactive,
minimally hazardous nucleic acid stain, permits detection of Ki-ras mutants
present as less than 0.5% of the target sequences. The polymerase chain reaction 
(PCR) primers we have selected produce an amplicon that distinguishes all
clinically observed variants in Ki-ras codons 12 and 13 from the wild type. We
compared mutant discrimination and SYBR-Green II detection sensitivity in three
formats: (a) standard MDE gel SSCP, (b) rapid minigel MDE using an internal gel
temperature controller, and (c) rapid resolution in chilled 15% (37.5:1)
acrylamide minigels. All these gels are easily evaluated by standard ultraviolet 
transillumination and digital image analysis. This ssDNA staining method is
rapid, highly reproducible, and minimally hazardous, and minigels use 25% the
reagents of most other systems. Our improvements are relevant for the detection
of mutations in pathologic samples with minimal targets, such as fine-needle
aspirates, and body fluids in which mutated alleles of a gene may be present at
low levels but carry a high level of diagnostic or prognostic importance.


PMID: 8955617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1698. Electrophoresis. 1996 Aug;17(8):1294-8.

Comparison of different electrophoretic methods for digital typing of the MS32
(D1S8) locus.

Rodriguez-Calvo MS(1), Bellas S, Soto JL, Barros F, Carracedo A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Legal Medicine, University of Santiago de Compostela, Spain.

Minisatellite variant repeat mapping by polymerase chain reaction (MVR-PCR) is a 
new and powerful approach for individual identification from human DNA. This
method has been successfully applied to the hypervariable human minisatellite
MS32 (locus D1S8). In this work, we further investigate this locus using
different electrophoretic techniques which include: agarose gels and
nonradioactive hybridization, miniaturized polyacrylamide gels, followed by
silver staining, and automatic detection of fluorescent labeled alleles. The
advantages and disadvantages of each method are described. Also, MVR codes from a
Galician population (NW Spain) are provided.

DOI: 10.1002/elps.1150170803 
PMID: 8874052  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1699. Anal Biochem. 1996 Jun 1;237(2):204-7.

A quantitative method of determining initial amounts of DNA by polymerase chain
reaction cycle titration using digital imaging and a novel DNA stain.

Becker A(1), Reith A, Napiwotzki J, Kadenbach B.

Author information: 
(1)Fachbereich Chemie, Philipps-Universität, Marburg, D-35032, Germany.

A new nonradioactive method is described for quantitative determination of small 
amounts of DNA by PCR, examplified with mitochondrial DNA. The method represents 
a combination of serial dilution PCR and kinetic PCR and avoids the use of
radioactivity by applying the fluorescent dye SYBR Green I, allowing
visualization of PCR amplified bands on agarose gels in a broad exponential range
of PCR cycles. After recording agarose gel images with a video camera in a
computer, the band intensities are processed with the NIH image program and
analyzed by a new graphical method. This nonradioactive method allows calculation
of small original amounts of specific DNA in samples at high accuracy.

DOI: 10.1006/abio.1996.0230 
PMID: 8660567  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1700. Br J Urol. 1996 Mar;77(3):411-7.

The use of RT-PCR for prostate-specific antigen assay to predict potential
surgical failures before radical prostatectomy: molecular staging of prostate
cancer.

Olsson CA(1), De Vries GM, Benson MC, Raffo A, Buttyan R, Cama C, O'Toole K, Katz
AE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Columbia University, New York, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the potential role of a recently developed reverse
transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay for prostate-specific
antigen (PSA), that detects circulating prostate cells in patients with prostate 
cancer, in the management of clinically localized cancer.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 138 men (mean age 62.5 years, range 49-70)
scheduled for radical retropubic prostatectomy had an RT-PCR assay before
surgery. The results were compared with the final pathological stage of disease, 
the results from local imaging techniques, serum PSA levels, digital rectal
examination (DRE) and Gleason score.
RESULTS: Enhanced RT-PCR for PSA was the best predictor of potential surgical
failures; 70% of patients with positive surgical margins or invasion into the
seminal vesicle were identified pre-operatively by a positive RT-PCR assay (odds 
ratio = 12.0, positive predictive value = 64%, negative predictive value = 87%). 
RT-PCR was able to identify pre-operatively patients with adverse pathology,
despite low serum PSA values (< 4.0 ng/mL). In patients with high PSA level (> 10
ng/mL), RT-PCR discriminated between potentially curable candidates and those
with established extraprostatic disease.
CONCLUSIONS: RT-PCR for PSA adds unique prognostic information when considering
patients for radical surgery. The final role for the RT-PCR assay is as yet
undefined; however, the ability to detect potential surgical failures
pre-operatively using a molecular approach should have a significant impact on
the management of patients with prostate cancer.


PMID: 8814848  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1701. Tumour Biol. 1996;17(5):306-19.

Rapid detection of thymidylate synthase gene expression levels by
semi-quantitative competitive reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction
followed by quantitative digital image analysis.

Houze TA(1), Larsson L, Larsson PA, Hansson G, Asea A, Gustavsson B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Ostra University Hospital, Sweden.

We describe a simplified and reliable polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method to
quantify thymidylate synthase (TS) gene expression levels from clinical human
tumor biopsy samples as small as 100 mg using the beta-actin housekeeping gene as
a reference standard. The semiquantitative RT-PCR is carried out by the
coamplification of the target template and an external competitor using primer
pairs common to both templates in the same reaction vessel. Quantitative digital 
image analysis is performed directly after electrophoresis, thus mRNA
quantification is done quickly and without the use of radioactive substances. The
observed relative TS gene expression levels varied between 3- and 40-fold, but
most of the values were grouped within a 10-fold range. There is an observed 89% 
correlation between TS mRNA expression and protein levels. These findings suggest
that preliminary experiments used to determine the linear range of RT-PCR
amplification in non-competitive semiquantitative PCR experiments, and the use of
radioactive substances to quantify PCR products may be unnecessary.


PMID: 8792857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1702. Chromosoma. 1995 May;103(9):642-52.

A comparative study of karyotypes of muntjacs by chromosome painting.

Yang F(1), Carter NP, Shi L, Ferguson-Smith MA.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Evolution, Kunming Institute of Zoology, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Yunnan.

We have used a combination of chromosome sorting, degenerate
oligonucleotide-primed polymerase chain reaction (DOP-PCR), chromosome painting
and digital image capturing and processing techniques for comparative chromosome 
analysis of members of the genus Muntiacus. Chromosome-specific "paints" from a
female Indian muntjac were hybridised to the metaphase chromosomes of the
Gongshan, Black, and Chinese muntjac by both single and three colour chromosome
painting. Karyotypes and idiograms for the Indian, Gongshan, Black and Chinese
muntjac were constructed, based on enhanced 4', 6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI)
banding patterns. The hybridisation signal for each paint was assigned to
specific bands or chromosomes for all of the above muntjac species. The
interspecific chromosomal homology was demonstrated by the use of both enhanced
DAPI banding and comparative chromosome painting. These results provide direct
molecular cytogenetic evidence for the tandem fusion theory of the chromosome
evolution of muntjac species.


PMID: 7587587  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1703. Cancer. 1995 Apr 1;75(7):1642-8.

Enhanced reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction for prostate specific
antigen as an indicator of true pathologic stage in patients with prostate
cancer.

Katz AE(1), de Vries GM, Begg MD, Raffo AJ, Cama C, O'Toole K, Buttyan R, Benson 
MC, Olsson CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia
University, New York, New York 10032, USA.

BACKGROUND: As up to 50% of all patients with prostate cancer who have undergone 
radical prostatectomy are found to be understaged subsequent to surgery, a more
sensitive early staging modality currently is needed. A molecular assay that
detects prostate specific antigen (PSA)-synthesizing cells in the peripheral
circulation of patients with prostate cancer is described.
METHODS: An enhanced reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR)
assay specific for PSA mRNA was performed on RNA extracted from blood drawn from 
94 patients before radical prostatectomy. Surgical specimens were examined to
determine the extent of tumor spread. The assay was compared with imaging
modalities, digital rectal examination, and serum PSA level as predictors of
pathology. Additionally, patients were monitored postoperatively by serum PSA
level to determine any potential correlation between patient RT-PCR scores and
subsequent tumor recurrence.
RESULTS: Postoperative pathology revealed that 36 of the 94 patients had
extraprostatic disease at the time of surgery. Enhanced RT-PCR identified 26 of
these patients from preoperative blood specimens (72% sensitivity). The test was 
negative for 51 of the 58 patients with organ-confined disease (88% specificity).
An odds ratio analysis showed that no other preoperative staging modality was
related more strongly to extraprostatic or organ-confined disease. Follow-up PSA 
determinations revealed that RT-PCR positive patients were at higher risk for a
recurrence. At 6 months after surgery, the rates for an increased PSA were 19 and
2% for RT-PCR-positive and -negative patients, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The data from this follow-up study continue to support the utility
of enhanced RT-PCR as an early staging modality for radical prostatectomy
candidates.


PMID: 8826922  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1704. Genomics. 1995 Mar 1;26(1):134-7.

A physical map of chromosome 20 established using fluorescence in situ
hybridization and digital image analysis.

Stokke T(1), Collins C, Kuo WL, Kowbel D, Shadravan F, Tanner M, Kallioniemi A,
Kallioniemi OP, Pinkel D, Deaven L, et al.

Author information: 
(1)University of California, San Francisco, USA.

The physical locations of 46 cosmid clones and 21 P1 clones were determined along
the chromosome 20 axis relative to the p terminus (FLpter) using fluorescence in 
situ hybridization (FISH) and digital image microscopy. The cosmid clones were
selected from the chromosomally enriched library LA20NC01. Nine P1 clones were
selected from a pooled DuPont genomic library using PCR with primer pairs
selected to amplify genetically mapped sequence-tagged sites. This information
was used to relate the physical map to the genetic map. Twelve P1 clones were
selected from the same library using PCR primer pairs that amplified known genes.
Two of these, E2F and BCLX, had not been mapped previously.


PMID: 7782072  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1705. Alcohol Clin Exp Res. 1994 Oct;18(5):1057-68.

Role of magnesium and calcium in alcohol-induced hypertension and strokes as
probed by in vivo television microscopy, digital image microscopy, optical
spectroscopy, 31P-NMR, spectroscopy and a unique magnesium ion-selective
electrode.

Altura BM(1), Altura BT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, State University of New York, Health Science Center 
at Brooklyn 11203.

It is not known why alcohol ingestion poses a risk for development of
hypertension, stroke and sudden death. Of all drugs, which result in body
depletion of magnesium (Mg), alcohol is now known to be the most notorious cause 
of Mg-wasting. Recent data obtained through the use of biophysical (and
noninvasive) technology suggest that alcohol may induce hypertension, stroke, and
sudden death via its effects on intracellular free Mg2+ ([Mg2+]i), which in turn 
alter cellular and subcellular bioenergetics and promote calcium ion (Ca2+)
overload. Evidence is reviewed that demonstrates that the dietary intake of Mg
modulates the hypertensive actions of alcohol. Experiments with intact rats
indicates that chronic ethanol ingestion results in both structural and
hemodynamic alterations in the microcirculation, which, in themselves, could
account for increased vascular resistance. Chronic ethanol increases the
reactivity of intact microvessels to vasoconstrictors and results in decreased
reactivity to vasodilators. Chronic ethanol ingestion clearly results in vascular
smooth muscle cells that exhibit a progressive increase in exchangeable and
cellular Ca2+ concomitant with a progressive reduction in Mg content. Use of
31P-NMR spectroscopy coupled with optical-backscatter reflectance spectroscopy
revealed that acute ethanol administration to rats results in dose-dependent
deficits in phosphocreatine (PCr), the [PCr]/[ATP] ratio, intracellular pH (pHi),
oxyhemoglobin, and the mitochondrial level of oxidized cytochrome oxidase aa3
concomitant with a rise in brain-blood volume and inorganic phosphate. Temporal
studies performed in vivo, on the intact brain, indicate that [Mg2+]i is depleted
before any of the bioenergetic changes. Pretreatment of animals with Mg2+
prevents ethanol from inducing stroke and prevents all of the adverse
bioenergetic changes from taking place. Use of quantitative digital imaging
microscopy, and mag-fura-2, on single-cultured canine cerebral vascular smooth
muscle, human endothelial, and rat astrocyte cells reveals that alcohol induces
rapid concentration-dependent depletion of [Mg2+]i. These cellular deficits in
[Mg2+]i seem to precipitate cellular and subcellular disturbances in cytoplasmic 
and mitochondrial bioenergetic pathways leading to Ca2+ overload and ischemia. A 
role for ethanol-induced alterations in [Mg2+]i should also be considered in the 
well-known behavioral actions of alcohol.


PMID: 7847586  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1706. J Mol Evol. 1994 Aug;39(2):151-9.

Aspects of nonrandom turnover involved in the concerted evolution of intergenic
spacers within the ribosomal DNA of Drosophila melanogaster.

Linares AR(1), Bowen T, Dover GA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Leicester, UK.

Polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-amplified, sequenced, and digitally typed
intergenic spacers (IGSs) of the ribosomal (r)DNA in D. melanogaster reveal
unexpected features of the mechanisms of turnover involved with the concerted
evolution of the gene family. Characterization of the structure of three isolated
IGS length variants reveals breakage "hot spots" within the 330-base-pair (bp)
subrepeat array found in the spacers. Internal mapping of variant repeats within 
the 240-bp subrepeat array using a novel digital DNA typing procedure
(minisatellite variant repeat [MVR]-PCR) shows an unexpected pattern of
clustering of variant repeats. Each 240-bp subrepeat array consists of
essentially two halves with the repeats in each half identified by specific
mutations. This bipartite structure, observed in a cloned IGS unit, in the
majority of genomic DNA of laboratory and wild flies and in PCR-amplified
products, has been widely homogenized yet is not predicted by a model of unequal 
crossing over with randomly placed recombination breakpoints. Furthermore, wild
populations contain large numbers of length variants in contrast to uniformly
shared length variants in laboratory stocks. High numbers of length variants
coupled to the observation of a homogenized bipartite structure of the 240-bp
subrepeat array suggest that the unit of turnover and homogenization is smaller
than the IGS and might involve gene conversion. The use of PCR for the structural
analysis of members of the rDNA gene family coupled to digital DNA typing
provides powerful new inroads into the mechanisms of DNA turnover affecting the
course of molecular evolution in this family.


PMID: 7932779  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1707. Lymphology. 1994 Jun;27(2):82-9.

31-P mr spectroscopy of a leg lymphangiosarcoma.

Kiricuta IC(1), Bluemm RG, Krawzak HW, Rühl J, Beyer HK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Würzburg (IC), Essen, RGB.

In a 64 year old man with a large, low grade lymphangiosarcoma of the right
thigh, we correlated the results of in vivo 31-P-magnetic resonance spectroscopy 
(MRS), proton magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and digital subtraction (DSA)
with the pathologic specimen and histology. The 31-P MRS spectra of the tumor
showed well-resolved peaks as follows: intense PCr (phosphocreatine), PDE
(phosphodiester) and Pi (inorganic phosphate), and low PME (phosphomonoester).
The Pi peak revealed an intratumor pH of 6.96 compared with 7.16 of normal
skeletal muscle. The lower PME signal was consistent with low histopathologic
mitotic activity of the tumor.


PMID: 8078364  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1708. Urology. 1994 Jun;43(6):765-75.

Molecular staging of prostate cancer with the use of an enhanced reverse
transcriptase-PCR assay.

Katz AE(1), Olsson CA, Raffo AJ, Cama C, Perlman H, Seaman E, O'Toole KM, McMahon
D, Benson MC, Buttyan R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons,
New York, New York.

OBJECTIVE: Because up to 40 percent of surgically treated patients with prostate 
cancer are subsequently found to be clinically understaged, a more sensitive
staging modality to identify extraprostatic disease prior to surgery is required.
METHODS: We describe an enhanced reverse transcriptase [RT] polymerase chain
reaction (PCR) assay utilizing oligonucleotide primers specific for the human
prostate-specific antigen (PSA). This assay identifies PSA-synthesizing cells
from reverse transcribed mRNA. This assay was applied to RNAs extracted from the 
peripheral blood lymphocytes of 65 patients with clinically localized prostate
cancer. In addition, blood from 20 women, 20 young men, 25 age-matched control
men under treatment for benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), and 18 men with
established, untreated metastatic prostate cancer was tested.
RESULTS: An RT-PCR assay for PSA can recognize one PSA-expressing cell diluted
into one hundred thousand lymphocytes. The sensitivity of this assay can be
enhanced by the addition of digoxigenin-modified nucleotides to the PCR reaction 
and this assay was applied to RNAs extracted from the peripheral lymphocyte
fraction of 148 prostate cancer patients and controls at this institution.
Although no specimen from women or men without cancer was positive in this assay,
14 of 18 metastatic prostate cancer patients were positive (77.8%). Additionally,
25 of 65 (38.5%) patients with clinically localized disease (T1-2b) were positive
from blood specimens obtained prior to surgery. Final pathologic results from
this group of patients identified a correlation between positivity on this assay 
and the presence of capsular tumor penetration (sensitivity, 68%; specificity,
84%) as well as strong correlation with the finding of carcinoma at the surgical 
margin (sensitivity, 87%; specificity, 76%). Logarithmic regression analysis of
the results of the RT-PCR assay indicates its remarkable superiority to digital
rectal examination, computed tomography scan, endorectal coil magnetic resonance 
imaging, PSA, prostate-specific antigen density, or Gleason score for predicting 
the true pathologic stage of prostate cancer in these surgically treated
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: An RT-PCR assay using PSA primers to detect prostate cells in the
peripheral circulation of surgical-candidate patients is significantly correlated
with capsular penetration and tumor-positive surgical margins. This molecular
assay provides a sensitive and specific means to stage correctly apparent
localized prostate cancer prior to radical prostatectomy.


PMID: 7515202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1709. J Forensic Sci. 1994 May;39(3):743-50.

Potential forensic applications of minisatellite variant repeat (MVR) mapping
using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) at D1S8.

Yamamoto T(1), Tamaki K, Kojima T, Uchihi R, Katsumata Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Legal Medicine, Nagoya University School of Medicine, Japan.

Minisatellite variant repeat (MVR) mapping using the polymerase chain reaction
(PCR) at D1S8 (MS32) was applied to samples from various human tissues. All DNA
samples obtained from an individual's organs at autopsy consistently gave the
same digital diploid codes. Even 1 ng of genomic DNA was sufficient to obtain
authentic diploid MVR coding ladders. MVR-PCR could be reliably applied to DNA
isolated from bloodstains, saliva stains, seminal stains and plucked hair roots, 
and should become a powerful tool for individual identification in forensic
investigations.


PMID: 8006621  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1710. J Neurobiol. 1994 Mar;25(3):281-93.

Resonant activation of calcium signal transduction in neurons.

Fields RD(1), Nelson PG.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Developmental Neurobiology, National Institute of Child Health
and Human Development, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

The relevant parameters of calcium fluxes mediating activation of immediate-early
genes and the collapse of growth cones in mouse DRG neurons in response to action
potentials delivered in different temporal patterns were measured in a
multicompartment cell culture preparation using digital fluorescence
videomicroscopy. Growth cone collapse was produced by trains of action potentials
causing a large rise in [Ca2+]i, but after chronic exposure to patterned
stimulation growth cones regenerated and became insensitive to the
stimulus-induced increase in [Ca2+]i. Calcium reached similar peak
concentrations, but the [Ca2+]i increased more slowly than in naive growth cones 
(time constant of 6.0 s versus 1.4 s in naive growth cones). Semiquantitative PCR
measurements of gene expression showed that pulsed stimulation delivered at 1-min
intervals for 30 min induced expression of c-fos, but the same total number of
action potentials delivered at 2-min intervals failed to induce c-fos expression,
even though this stimulus induces a larger peak [Ca2+]i than the effective
stimulus pattern. The experiments suggest that the kinetics of calcium fluxes
produced by different patterns of stimulation, and changes in the kinetics of
calcium flux in neurons under different states of activation, are critical in
determining the effects of action potentials on growth cone motility or
expression of IE genes during development of neuronal circuits. We propose that
differences in kinetics of individual reactions in the stimulus-response pathway 
may lead to resonance of activation in the neuron, such that certain processes
will be selectively activated by particular temporal patterns of stimulation.

DOI: 10.1002/neu.480250308 
PMID: 8195791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1711. Hum Mol Genet. 1993 Oct;2(10):1629-32.

Four-state MVR-PCR: increased discrimination of digital DNA typing by
simultaneous analysis of two polymorphic sites within minisatellite variant
repeats at D1S8.

Tamaki K(1), Monckton DG, MacLeod A, Allen M, Jeffreys AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Leicester, UK.

Minisatellite variant repeat mapping by PCR (MVR-PCR) provides a digital approach
to DNA typing that can reveal huge levels of variation at minisatellite loci.
MVR-PCR has so far been applied to three human minisatellites, including the
hypervariable locus D1S8. Previous analysis at D1S8 was based on the
discrimination of repeat unit types that differ by a single base substitution. We
now show that a second polymorphic site within D1S8 repeats may be assayed
simultaneously with the first to define four classes of repeat units ('four-state
MVR-PCR'). This approach can also be applied to the other end of D1S8 alleles in 
'reverse four-state MVR-PCR'. Both of these procedures substantially increase the
informativeness of MVR analysis at D1S8 and should prove useful in studies of
minisatellite biology and potentially in forensic DNA typing.


PMID: 8268916  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1712. Minerva Med. 1993 Oct;84(10):511-21.

[The hand in hematologic diseases].

[Article in Italian]

Scutellari PN(1), Orzincolo C, Franceschini F.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Radiologia, Università degli Studi di Ferrara.

Radiography of the hand often reflects the picture of generalized diseases,
affecting both the muscolo-skeletal system and the others. Some of the most
common hematologic disorders may be detected in roentgenograms of the hand,
especially in the anemias, but also in plasma cell dyscrasias and proliferative
malignant diseases (i.e., lymphomas and leukemias). On the basis of their
experience, the authors have reviewed and discussed the radiographic "pattern" of
the hand in several hematologic conditions (i.e., anemias; thalassemias;
sickle-cell disease; lymphomas; multiple myeloma; etc.), and their pathogenesis. 
Radiographies of both the hands, in antero-posterior view, were performed using
Kodak-Min R film; xeroradiography was performed--in the same projection--using
Rank Xerox plate, developed always in "positive mode" in 125 Rank Xerox System,
conditioned with contrast "D", for emphasizing osseous details. Recently, digital
radiography--employing PCR system--has substituted xeroradiography, because of
its well-known properties and diagnostic advantages: in this manner, changes in
bone and soft tissue are demonstrated on the same image, with augmentation of
diagnostic information, with reduced dose to patient. In our series, hand is
always involved (100% of cases) in thalassemias: lesions are characterized by
diffuse osteopenia (washed out melted appearance), with widening of bone marrow
space, diaphyseal convex aspect of the long bones, thinning of the cortex, and
cyst-like changes (rain drops). Lesions disappear completely after the
hypertransfusion regimen (HTR). Following chelation therapy, lesions of the wrist
and hand are similar to those described in rickets and/or scurvy. Sometimes, the 
hand is characteristically affected in sickle-cell disease--particularly in the
so called hand-foot syndrome--as "cone-deformity". In multiple myeloma incidence 
of hand involvement is 2.9%: lesions reflect general abnormalities observed in
other skeletal sites, and they consist in multiple well-circumscribed lytic
lesions. In amyloidosis, poorly defined radiolucent areas may be discovered. In
non-Hodgkin lymphoma, incidence of hand involvement is less frequent,
approximately 0.2%: the radiographic pattern is aspecific (mottled lytic
lesions), sometimes simulating multiple myeloma and/or leukemias. In hemophilia, 
swelling of soft tissues, around the interphalangeal joint, related to
intra-articular and/or per-articular hematoma, is observed. The other conditions 
reflect general radiographic features of anemias, which are of three main types: 
1. the over active marrow (i.e., polycythemia); 2. the infarction of bone (i.e., 
sickle-cell disease); 3. non-specific findings, resulting from chronic illness
(delays of maturation; dwarfism; osteopenia; tendency to infection).


PMID: 8247305  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1713. Mol Biochem Parasitol. 1993 Sep;61(1):15-24.

Digital codes from hypervariable tandemly repeated DNA sequences in the
Plasmodium falciparum circumsporozoite gene can genetically barcode isolates.

Arnot DE(1), Roper C, Bayoumi RA.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cell, Animal and Population Biology, Edinburgh University, UK.

DNA typing systems currently used in parasitology involve either hybridising
Southern blots with repetitive sequence probes or amplifying genomic sequences
using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Both such approaches assay allelic
length variation, usually in unexpressed tandemly repeated DNA sequences. Where
an appropriate target locus exists, an alternative PCR-based strategy which
reveals allelic sequence variation in tandemly repeated DNA offers a more
accurate and internally controlled assay. We describe such a strategy for the
rapid extraction of information on tandem repeat sequence variation from
hypervariable alleles, and apply it to the Plasmodium falciparum CS gene. The
extreme variability of such DNA 'barcodes' can be used to identify parasite
stocks and lineages. This system is also potentially useful for population
genetic and epidemiological studies since it offers the possibility of following 
the spread of distinctively marked parasite genotypes in samples taken from
infected individuals.


PMID: 8259128  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1714. Hum Mol Genet. 1993 Aug;2(8):1129-35.

Digital DNA typing at a second hypervariable locus by minisatellite variant
repeat mapping.

Neil DL(1), Jeffreys AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Leicester, UK.

Minisatellite variant repeat unit mapping by PCR (MVR-PCR) assays the
interspersion pattern of variant repeat units along minisatellite alleles.
Mapping such internal variation in the highly polymorphic minisatellite MS31A
(locus D7S21), reveals extreme levels of allelic variability, far in excess of
that detectable by allele length analysis. Flanking base substitutional
polymorphisms have enabled the 5' structure of large numbers of MS31A alleles to 
be derived from genomic DNA by allele-specific MVR-PCR. More than 100 alleles
have now been mapped and all are different. Several alleles show related internal
structures and some of these provide evidence of polarity in allelic variation
reminiscent of that seen at two other hypervariable minisatellites, D1S8 (MS32)
and D16S309 (MS205). We also describe the diploid digital coding of MS31A,
including the simultaneous coding of MS31A and a second locus, MS32, by duplex
MVR-PCR, which greatly enhances the potential forensic applications of this
technique.


PMID: 8401494  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1715. Hum Mol Genet. 1993 May;2(5):513-9.

Allele-specific MVR-PCR analysis at minisatellite D1S8.

Monckton DG(1), Tamaki K, MacLeod A, Neil DL, Jeffreys AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Leicester, UK.

Minisatellite variant repeat mapping by the polymerase chain reaction (MVR-PCR)
provides a digital approach to DNA typing of great potential use both in forensic
medicine and, by mapping single alleles, for exploring allelic variability and
mutation processes at minisatellites. The MVR haplotypes of single alleles can be
determined either from physically separated alleles or by pedigree analysis of
digital diploid codes generated from both alleles simultaneously. We now show
that single alleles can be rapidly mapped from total genomic DNA using
allele-specific PCR primers directed to polymorphic sites in the DNA flanking the
minisatellite. This approach can also be used to dissect mixed DNA samples such
as those often encountered in forensic DNA analysis.


PMID: 8518788  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1716. Hum Mol Genet. 1993 May;2(5):505-12.

Chromosomal bar codes produced by multicolor fluorescence in situ hybridization
with multiple YAC clones and whole chromosome painting probes.

Lengauer C(1), Speicher MR, Popp S, Jauch A, Taniwaki M, Nagaraja R, Riethman HC,
Donis-Keller H, D'Urso M, Schlessinger D, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Humangenetik und Anthropologie, Heidelberg, Germany.

Colored chromosome staining patterns, termed chromosomal 'bar codes' (CBCs), were
obtained on human chromosomes by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with
pools of Alu-PCR products from YAC clones containing human DNA inserts ranging
from 100 kbp to 1 Mbp. In contrast to conventional G- or R-bands, the chromosomal
position, extent, individual color and relative signal intensity of each 'bar'
could be modified depending on probe selection and labeling procedures. Alu-PCR
amplification products were generated from 31 YAC clones which mapped to 37
different chromosome bands. For multiple color FISH, Alu-PCR amplification
products from various clones were either biotinylated or labeled with
digoxigenin. Probes from up to twenty YAC clones were used simultaneously to
produce CBCs on selected human chromosomes. Evaluation using a cooled CCD camera 
and digital image analysis confirmed the high reproducibility of the bars from
one metaphase spread to another. Combinatorial FISH with mixtures of whole
chromosomes paint probes was applied to paint seven chromosomes simultaneously in
different colors along with a set of YAC clones which map to these chromosomes.
We discuss the potential to construct analytical chromosomal bar codes adapted to
particular needs of cytogenetic investigations and automated image analysis.


PMID: 8518787  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1717. Dev Dyn. 1993 Feb;196(2):91-102.

gli, a zinc finger transcription factor and oncogene, is expressed during normal 
mouse development.

Walterhouse D(1), Ahmed M, Slusarski D, Kalamaras J, Boucher D, Holmgren R,
Iannaccone P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois 60611.

The oncogene GLI is amplified and expressed in some cases of human malignant
glioma and undifferentiated childhood sarcoma and is the prototype for a gene
family characterized by a highly conserved set of five tandem zinc fingers and a 
consensus cysteine-histidine link. This zinc finger motif has been shown to bind 
DNA with sequence specificity and may mediate transcriptional regulation. Since
GLI is expressed in embryonal carcinoma cell lines but not in most normal adult
tissues and shows significant sequence similarity within its zinc finger domain
to cubitus interruptus dominant (ciD), a Drosophila segmentation gene known to be
important in the morphogenesis of the posterior portion of each larval segment,
we established the temporal and tissue expression patterns of the mouse homologue
of human GLI in day 10 through 18 mouse embryos with Northern blotting, reverse
transcriptase coupled PCR, and in situ hybridization. gli transcripts were
demonstrated on days 10 through 18 of mouse embryonic development as well as in
normal adult uterus, brain, testis, and limb. Tissue expression of gli during
gestation was demonstrated in Meckel's precartilage mesenchyme, the basis
occipitus, rib mesenchymal condensations, primordial vertebral bodies, digital
mesenchymal condensations in forefoot and hindfoot plates, the ependymal layer of
the spinal cord, and the mesoderm of the gastrointestinal tract. Expression
persisted throughout gestation in developing bone and cartilage of the
extremities, the ribs, and the vertebral bodies, as well as the gastrointestinal 
tract mesoderm. These findings support a role for gli family genes in normal
craniofacial and digital development in mammals first suggested by the
demonstration of translocation breakpoints within the GLI3 gene in families with 
the Greig cephalopolysyndactylyl syndrome and subsequently by reduced gli3
expression in the mouse mutant extra toes. It is surprising that a single gene
would be expressed in such a wide range of mesenchymal structures.

DOI: 10.1002/aja.1001960203 
PMID: 8364225  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1718. EXS. 1993;67:125-39.

Minisatellite variant repeat mapping: application to DNA typing and mutation
analysis.

Jeffreys AJ(1), Monckton DG, Tamaki K, Neil DL, Armour JA, MacLeod A, Collick A, 
Allen M, Jobling M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Leicester, England.

Most DNA typing systems assay allele length variation at tandemly repeated loci
such as minisatellites and microsatellites. Allele length measurements are
approximate, which impedes the use of such loci in forensic analysis and in
studies of allelic variability at hypervariable loci. We now review progress in
the development of alternative DNA typing systems based on allelic variation in
the interspersion patterns of variant repeat units along minisatellite alleles.
Minisatellite variant repeat mapping by PCR (MVR-PCR) not only provides a
powerful new digital approach to DNA typing, but also for the first time allows
investigation of the true level of allelic variability at minisatellite loci and 
of the mutational mechanisms that generate ultravariability.


PMID: 8400685  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1719. Nihon Hoigaku Zasshi. 1992 Dec;46(6):474-82.

[DNA typing and analysis of the D1S8 (MS 32) allele in the Japanese population by
the minisatellite variant repeat (MVR) mapping by polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
assay].

[Article in Japanese]

Tamaki K(1), Yamamoto T, Uchihi R, Kojima T, Katsumata Y, Jeffreys AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Legal Medicine, Nagoya University School of Medicine, Japan.

Minisatellite variant repeat (MVR) mapping using the polymerase chain reaction
(PCR) of the D1S8 (MS32) locus from total genomic DNA and size separated alleles 
in the Japanese population was performed. DNA was extracted from blood in healthy
non-related Japanese individuals. The digital data obtained were computer
analysed, and from this single assay all unrelated individuals tested could be
unambiguously distinguished. The average difference in diploid codes between
unrelated individuals was 36 exclusions over the first 60 repeat unit positions. 
The mean proportions of a-, t-, and 0-type repeat units were 73.5%, 24.5% and
2.1%, respectively. MVR-PCR gives digital profiles which show extreme levels of
individual variation and should prove very useful for personal identification.
The advantages and further applications of MVR-PCR are also discussed.


PMID: 1303453  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1720. Radiol Med. 1992 Oct;84(4):455-8.

[Conventional radiology, digital radiology with photostimulable phosphor, laser
digitalization of thoracic radiographic films at the bedside. A comparative
study].

[Article in Italian]

Miceli M(1), Stamati R, Burci P, Guidarelli G, Sartoni Galloni S.

Author information: 
(1)Servizio di Fisica Sanitaria, Ospedale Maggiore, USL 27, Bologna.

The bedside chest images obtained with conventional radiology and with "on line" 
and "off line" digital modalities were compared to evaluate the respective
capabilities in visualizing chest anatomical structures. Seventy patients were
submitted to bedside chest examinations with a portable unit; both a conventional
film and a digital system (PCR Graphics 1, Philips) with photostimulable phosphor
imaging plate were fitted in the radiographic cassette. The former was digitized 
using an "off line" laser beam unit (FD 2000, Dupont); the latter was
subsequently postprocessed by modifying contrast, optical density and spatial
frequencies. Thus, 4 different viewing modalities were obtained for each
examination: a) conventional radiography; b) standard digital radiography; c)
postprocessed digital radiography; d) digitized conventional radiography.
Detectability rates of chest anatomical structures were analyzed by 4 independent
radiologists on the different images and expressed by a score 1-4. The values
were always higher with digital modalities than with the conventional one and the
differences were statistically significant (Student's t-test modified by
Bonferroni). In particular, the greatest difference was found between c) and a)
in retrocardiac lung parenchyma and in skeletal structures, in favour of c).
Concerning the comparative adequacy of the various digital modalities, higher
detectability rates of chest anatomical structures were obtained with c), but
also with b), than with d).


PMID: 1455031  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1721. Hum Mol Genet. 1992 Sep;1(6):401-6.

Minisatellite variant repeat (MVR) mapping: analysis of 'null' repeat units at
D1S8.

Tamaki K(1), Monckton DG, MacLeod A, Neil DL, Allen M, Jeffreys AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Leicester, UK.

Erratum in
    Hum Mol Genet 1992 Oct;1(7):558.

Minisatellite variant repeat mapping by PCR (MVR-PCR) is a new approach to
studying variation in human DNA which analyses interspersion patterns of variant 
repeats within minisatellite arrays. MVR-PCR has been applied to the
hypervariable human minisatellite D1S8 which contains two major classes of
variant 29bp repeat units designated a-type and t-type. The MVR-PCR assay uses a-
or t-type specific primers, together with an amplimer at a fixed site in the DNA 
flanking the minisatellite, to reveal the interspersion patterns of variant
repeats along an allele. Extreme levels of variation are seen both in the
internal structures of individual alleles and in the digital code generated from 
the two superimposed alleles in total genomic DNA. However, occasional repeat
units fail to amplify in MVR-PCR, signifying the existence of further repeat
sequence variants termed 'null' or O-type repeats. Although not significant in
individual identification, correct genotyping of null repeats is important when
using MVR digital codes in parentage analysis. We have therefore characterised
these null repeats and show that most null repeats share a common variant repeat 
sequence. We discuss the possible origins of null repeats and their application
to paternity testing and the analysis of minisatellite evolution.


PMID: 1301914  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1722. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1992 Feb 15;89(4):1388-92.

Simultaneous visualization of seven different DNA probes by in situ hybridization
using combinatorial fluorescence and digital imaging microscopy.

Ried T(1), Baldini A, Rand TC, Ward DC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT
06510-8005.

Combinatorial labeling of probes (i.e., with two or more different reporters)
increases the number of target sequences that can be detected simultaneously by
fluorescence in situ hybridization. We have used an epifluorescence microscope
equipped with a digital imaging camera and computer software for pseudocoloring
and merging images to distinguish up to seven different probes using only three
fluorochromes. Chromosome-specific centromere repeat clones and
chromosome-specific "composite" probe sets were generated by PCR in which
different mixtures of modified nucleotides, including fluorescein-conjugated
dUTP, were incorporated. Cosmid clones were labeled similarly by
nick-translation. The technique has been used to delineate the centromeres of
seven different human chromosomes, on both 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole-stained 
metaphase spreads and interphase nuclei, to map six cosmid clones in a single
hybridization experiment and to detect chromosome translocations by chromosome
painting. Multiparameter hybridization analysis should facilitate molecular
cytogenetics, probe-based pathogen diagnosis, and gene mapping studies.


PMCID: PMC48456
PMID: 1741394  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1723. Biotechniques. 1992 Jan;12(1):98-102.

PCR amplification and simultaneous digoxigenin incorporation of long DNA probes
for fluorescence in situ hybridization.

Celeda D(1), Bettag U, Cremer C.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Applied Physics, University of Heidelberg, FRG.

Nonradioactive in situ hybridization has found widespread applications in
cytogenetics. Basic requirements are DNA probes in sufficient amounts and of high
specificity as well as a labeling protocol of good reproducibility. The PCR has
been of fundamental importance for the amplification of DNA sequences and thus
for the production of DNA probes. Meanwhile, PCR protocols for amplification of
DNA have reached a high degree of automation. So far, incorporation of labeled
nucleotides into these DNA probes has normally been done by nick translation.
Here we show that in using the PCR, amplification of a DNA probe larger than one 
kilobase accompanied by simultaneous incorporation of digoxigenin-11-dUTP can be 
performed for in situ hybridization experiments. As an example, the DNA probe pUC
1.77 specific for the subcentromeric region q12 of chromosome number 1 was used
and hybridized against metaphase chromosomes from human lymphocytes. The labeled 
chromosome region was detected by anti-digoxigenin-fluorescein, Fab fragments.
The experiments were evaluated by digital image analysis of microphotographs.


PMID: 1734931  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1724. Dtsch Zahn Mund Kieferheilkd Zentralbl. 1992;80(4):209-12.

[Initial experience with digital luminescence radiography in the radiological
diagnosis of the visceral cranium].

[Article in German]

Wahlmann UW(1), Ruppenthal T, Doll G.

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Mund-, Kiefer- und Gesichtschirurgie, Universität Mainz.

The purpose of this study was the evaluation of digital luminescence radiography 
(PCR; Philips Computed Radiography) used in routine radiological analysis of the 
facial skull. Besides the standard radiographs additional PCR shots were taken in
16 cases. The subjective evaluation was carried out by three different people
using clinical criteria. PCR films showed a significant advantage compared to
standard radiographs for the above mentioned applications.


PMID: 1450301  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1725. Rofo. 1991 Mar;154(3):286-91.

[The value of digital imaging techniques in skeletal imaging].

[Article in German]

Lehmann KJ(1), Busch HP, Sommer A, Georgi M.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für klinische Radiologie, Klinikum Mannheim, Universität Heidelberg.

The clinical value and the imaging characteristics of digital radiography systems
(image intensifier (I.I.) radiography: Polytron/Siemens, storage phosphor
radiography: PCR/Philipps) in skeletal imaging were compared with film-screen
radiography and 100 mm technique. The influence of spatial and contrast
resolution, entrance dose and detectability of lytic, osteoblastic and cortical
lesions were studied as well as the images of 25 parallel examined patients. Only
with the small image intensifier (diameter 14 cm) the quality of 100 mm technique
and digital I.I. radiography was equivalent to storage phosphor and film-screen
radiography. Storage phosphor radiography seems to be better qualified than I.I. 
radiography to replace conventional techniques in skeletal imaging.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1033134 
PMID: 1849297  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1726. J Digit Imaging. 1991 Feb;4(1):39-42.

Initial experience with a radiology imaging network to newborn and intensive care
units.

Witt RM(1), Cohen MD, Appledorn CR.

Author information: 
(1)James Whitcomb Riley Hospital for Children, Indiana University Medical Center,
Indianapolis.

A digital image network has been installed in the James Whitcomb Riley Hospital
for Children on the Indiana University Medical Center to create a limited all
digital imaging system. The system is composed of commercial components,
Philips/AT&T CommView system, (Philips Medical Systems, Shelton, CT; AT&T Bell
Laboratories, West Long Beach, NJ) and connects an existing Philips Computed
Radiology (PCR) system to two remote workstations that reside in the intensive
care unit and the newborn nursery. The purpose of the system is to display images
obtained from the PCR system on the remote workstations for direct viewing by
referring clinicians, and to reduce many of their visits to the radiology reading
room three floors away. The design criteria includes the ability to centrally
control all image management functions on the remote workstations to relieve the 
clinicians from any image management tasks except for recalling patient images.
The principal components of the system are the Philips PCR system, the
acquisition module (AM), and the PCR interface to the Data Management Module
(DMM). Connected to the DMM are an Enhanced Graphics Display Workstation (EGDW), 
an optical disk drive, and a network gateway to an ethernet link. The ethernet
network is the connection to the two Results Viewing Stations (RVS) and both RVSs
are approximately 100 m from the gateway. The DMM acts as an image file server
and an image archive device. The DMM manages the image data base and can load
images to the EGDW and the two RVSs. The system has met the initial design
specifications and can successfully capture images from the PCR and direct them
to the RVSs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


PMID: 2029571  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1727. Med Phys. 1990 May-Jun;17(3):454-9.

Quantitative radiographic imaging using a photostimulable phosphor system.

Floyd CE Jr(1), Chotas HG, Dobbins JT 3rd, Ravin CE.

Author information: 
(1)Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710.

We have evaluated a photostimulable phosphor x-ray imaging system [Philips
Computed Radiography (PCR) system] for use in quantification of x-ray exposure in
diagnostic radiography. An exponential function was fitted to data yielding
quantitative x-ray exposure values as a function of digital pixel values. We
investigated several factors that affect the accuracy of exposure measurement
using the PCR including repeatability, background noise as a function of time
delay between plate erasure and use, sensitivity variation between different
plates, nonuniformity of sensitivity within a plate, decay of the latent image
between time of exposure and readout (observed as a change in sensitivity), and
the accuracy with which the (exponential) calibration function yields exposure
values as a function of digital pixel values. The calibration was performed over 
the exposure range from 5.1 X 10(-9) to 2.0 X 10(-5) C/kg (0.02-75 mR). The
accuracy of exposure measurements made with a single imaging plate is between
1.6% and 4.2%. If measurements from several plates are involved, the uncertainty 
in the final measurement will be between 5% and 5.9%.

DOI: 10.1118/1.596569 
PMID: 2385203  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1728. Comput Appl Biosci. 1990 Apr;6(2):124-5.

Olga--oligonucleotide primer design program for the Atari ST.

Bridges CG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Royal Free Hospital School of Medicine, Royal Free
Hospital, London, UK.

A program to facilitate the design of oligonucleotide primers has been devised.
Olga is written in draft ANSI standard 'C' and makes use of the implementation of
Digital Research GEM (Graphics Environment Manager) on the Atari ST. Olga is
specifically suited to the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) allowing simultaneous 
analysis of two primer sequences. The advantage of Olga is that it provides in
one program analyses for direct repeats, secondary structures and primer
dimerization as well as several useful 'finishing' tools for workers engaged in
PCR optimization and oligonucleotide syntheses.


PMID: 2361183  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1729. J Thorac Imaging. 1990 Jan;5(1):31-5.

Pediatric digital chest imaging.

Tarver RD(1), Cohen M, Broderick NJ, Conces DJ Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Indiana University Medical Center, Department of Radiology, Wishard Memorial
Hospital, Indianapolis 46202.

The Philips Computed Radiography system performs well with pediatric portable
chest radiographs, handling the throughout of a busy intensive care service 24
hours a day. Images are excellent and routinely provide a conventional
(unenhanced) image and an edge-enhanced image. Radiation dose is decreased by the
lowered frequency of repeat examinations and the ability of the plates to respond
to a much lower dose and still provide an adequate image. The high quality and
uniform density of serial PCR portable radiographs greatly enhances diagnostic
content of the films. Decreased resolution has not been a problem clinically.
Image manipulation and electronic transfer to remote viewing stations appear to
be helpful and are currently being evaluated further. The PCR system provides a
marked improvement in pediatric portable chest radiology.


PMID: 2299700  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1730. Rontgenblatter. 1989 Jul;42(7):292-5.

[Thoracic diagnosis at the intensive care unit: digital radiography].

[Article in German]

Witte G(1), Krug B.

Author information: 
(1)Radiologische Klinik der Universität-Hamburg, Abteilung Röntgendiagnostik.

Only few reports have been published so far on the clinical use of digital
luminescence radiography (DLR). We report on 3.000 x-ray examinations of the
thorax in the intensive-care ward performed by us since a suitable system
(Philips PCR) had been installed in December 1987. The following advantages must 
be pointed out in respect of using DLR in thoracic diagnosis in the
intensive-care ward: No faulty exposures; the thorax can be x-rayed with the
patient recumbent in bed, with lateral take: the image brightness in maintained
at a constant level by histogram selection; electronic image processing and
storage. Hence, DLR entails considerable improvement in x-ray diagnosis of
intensive-care patients.


PMID: 2756311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

